---
layout: page
title: Mystic Charge [Metamagic]
permalink: /mystic/feats/mysticCharge/
category: mystic2
---
With Mystic Charge, the mystic can charge the air around himself with a
mystic effect for later use. He must announce the purpose of the effect
at the time of charging (though he need not specify the target of the
effect until the time of release). He can ward the charge (see the
[Warding](/mystic/techniques/warding) section) to prevent the charge
from decreasing by one point per round in each sphere. The mystic can
release the charged effect as a free action (ending the warding, if
any), resulting in multiple effects in a single round whose combined
sphere total exceeds his usual limit. If the effect being released is of
temporary duration, the mystic can choose to ward it normally at the
time of release.

For example, Hobbes the mystic cleric, in a fit of pique, decides that
he is going to have a lot of fun with Displacement at others' expense
(see the [Displacement](/mystic/spheres/displacement) section). While
talking to a group of pointy-hatted gnome triplets, he charges up Dis 6
to send the first gnome to designated location A for 2d6 rounds. On
round two, he charges Dis 4, to send the same gnome to a second
designated point B for 1 round, and wards that as well. The next two
rounds he repeats this process with the second gnome, setting location A
the third round and another location C on the next. He also wards both
of these charges. On rounds five and six, he does the same for the third
gnome, setting locations A and D respectively. Naturally, these charges
are warded too.

On round seven, Hobbes releases each effect in order, causing each of
the gnomes to go first to location A and then to B, C or D. Knowing that
he has way more HP than any of the gnomes, he steps into location A just
before the displaces to locations B, C and D wear off. Each round
thereafter, each gnome snaps back to location A (since those
displacements are still in effect), causing 6d6 damage to each gnome and
18d6 damage to Hobbes (6d6 per gnome). Since an obstacle is blocking the
replacement, the gnomes cannot leave locations B, C and D, and this
cycle of pain and hurt repeats every round until Hobbes bores of the
process and steps away from location A (or until the remaining
displacements come to an end, or Hobbes dispels them manually).

From this example, we conclude that Hobbes is a sadistic bastard, and
that three gnomes are in a world of hurt.
