---
layout: page
title: Improved Mystic Charge [Metamagic]
permalink: /mystic/feats/improvedMysticCharge/
category: mystic2
---
**Prerequisite:** [Mystic Charge](/mystic/feats/mysticCharge)

Improved Mystic Charge allows the mystic to store mystic energy within
an item or area as a charge. Just like storing energy with Mystic
Charge, the charge loses one point per sphere per round unless the
effect is warded to prevent such decay. The result is similar to that
from Imbue Mystic Energy, but you need not spend experience or time to
charge the item.

Another way to think about Improved Mystic Charge is that it allows
mystics to use warding with instantaneous effects instead of just with
temporary effects. A warded instantaneous effect is triggered when the
ward dissipates—either because the mystic chooses to dissolve it, or due
to a Divination trigger (see [Divination
triggers](/mystic/techniques/triggers)). However, note that a warded
instantaneous effect is not triggered if the warding is dispelled, or
collapses due to Destruction or similar magic—in that case, the effect
is simply lost.

For example, Benek the mystic wizard charges a gold coin with Pyro 12 to
be released in a 10-foot radius burst (see the
[Target](/mystic/basics/target) section), and wards it. Giving the gold
coin to a merchant who he feels had cheated him on a deal the week
before, he chuckles quietly to himself and leaves the store. He proceeds
out the town gate and mentally releases the warding on the effect,
burning the shop to the ground and giving the merchant an abject lesson
in fair pricing.

Now that Benek is wanted by the authorities, he decides that it might be
wise to protect the area around his camp that night by simulating an
audible alarm spell. He enchants the area with Ill 1 for the alarm
sound, and Div 3 for a simple state trigger of "when a creature is
within 30 feet" (a higher level of Divination could have been used to
discriminate against certain types of creatures or exempt specific
creatures from the effect—see [Divination
triggers](/mystic/techniques/triggers) for full details). He wards the
charge by consuming Res 4. When some city guards see Benek's tent and
get within 30 feet, the Divination trigger activates and the Illusion
magic is released. The alarm sounds, waking him just in time to deal
with the approaching guards.
