---
layout: page
title: Linking
permalink: /mystic/techniques/linking/
category: mystic2
---
Multiple mystics can combine their efforts to produce more powerful
effects. Each mystic who wishes to be part of the link must be enchanted
with a link-enabling effect (Enh 5). This technique is called
**enabling**. An enabled mystic can magically reach out to another
enabled mystic as a standard action, thus **completing** the link
between them. Completing the link with another mystic requires physical
contact, and all mystics involved must be willing, or the completion
will fail (once completion is achieved, physical contact is no longer
required). Removing oneself from a link (**severing** the link) is a
free action. Additionally, any mystic who is part of a completed link
can forcibly remove another mystic from the link (**expelling** that
mystic) as a free action. Lastly, any mystic who ceases to be enabled at
any point in time is automatically expelled from any link in which he is
currently a member.

For example, suppose that Luet the mystic wizard wishes to link with
Artys the mystic ranger and Ellwood the mystic bard. Artys pays Enh 5 to
enable himself. Ellwood does not have 5 ranks in Enhancement, so Luet
spends Enh 5 to enable herself, then Enh 5 again to enable Ellwood. Now
Ellwood and Luet join hands and Ellwood completes the link by willing
himself into it (of course, if Luet did not wish for Ellwood to link,
she could prevent the completion from being successful). Then Artys
places a hand on Luet's shoulder and wills himself into the link as
well. Now the three of them can act together, combining sphere points to
create effects more powerful than any one of them could have managed
alone.

When multiple linked mystics produce a single mystic effect (a **linked
effect**), each member of the link contributing to that effect must
apply their full concentration toward it-that is, producing that effect
takes a standard action for each mystic contributing sphere points.
Thus, in combat, linked mystics wishing to create a single effect must
delay their respective actions until their initiatives are equal, and
then collaboratively create their joint effect. A mystic who is a member
of the link but not contributing points to any effects that round is
called **dormant**, and need not delay his action in such a way, nor
apply concentration toward the link that round.

To determine the effective sphere total of an effect, take the number of
sphere points contributed by each member from each sphere, and convert
these values into the equivalent number of building points (see the
[Sphere point progression](/mystic/points) section for details on
building points). Sum these values for each sphere, then convert the
results back into sphere points, to determine each sphere's resulting
level.

In the previous example, suppose that Luet spends Trans 6, Artys
contributes Trans 4, and Ellwood uses Trans 2. Luet's Trans 6 yields
twenty-one building points, Artys's Trans 5 is fifteen building points,
and Ellwood's Trans 2 contributes three building points, for a total of
21 + 15 + 3 = 39 building pointsâ€”or eight sphere points. Note that since
it only takes thirty-six building points to reach eight sphere points,
there are three unneeded building points here, and since Ellwood's Trans
2 only yielded three building points, his contribution to the link was
useless in this instance.
