---
layout: page
title: Email200604091254
permalink: /deus/email-200604091254
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
<br>Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:54 PM
<br>Subject: destiny tokens

Hi,

As of the most recent session, you have all reached 10th level. Starting at session #14 (next session), each party will be granted one &quot;destiny token&quot; per session to use for altering what is yet to come. By presenting the destiny token and stating a rule describing the immediate situation and starting with &quot;It is fated that,&quot; the statement comes true. For example, &quot;It is fated that Max not die now&quot; or &quot;It is fated that Noj &amp; Sitruc lose this fight.&quot; All players must agree on a statement before it can take effect.

The idea is to provide a storytelling tool for use by the players, rather than an additional power available to the characters. The tokens represent the notion that fate is actively working around them. I anticipate uses of the token often, but not necessarily always, working toward character interests in-game.

However, I as GM will also have one destiny token per session. For joint sessions, each party will have a token, and I will have the same total number as well (i.e., one per party present). Thus, care should be taken not use the destiny token lightly, leaving me open to do whatever I like with mine, without the ability to &quot;counter&quot; what I am doing with a mitigating statement.

Feel free to reply with questions, or ask at the beginning of next session.

-Curtis
