To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
Date: Jul 31, 2005 8:30 PM
Subject: experience/announcements pages + nagging

Aaron &amp; Fae: Welcome to the Deus Ultionis mailing list.
Everyone else: Hi again. =)

I have created a page for each of you that will list your experience
awards per session (readable by you only, editable by me only,
accessible from your Player page). I will award a flat amount of
session EP each time, as well as a smaller but not wholly
insignificant amount of individual EP based on your roleplaying effort
during the session. This way, you cannot ever lose track of how much
EP you currently have. The page will also be used for any other
private announcements or comments that I may have regarding you or
your character specifically.

The individual EP awards will occasionally result in people being one
level higher or lower than others, depending on the session. I will
also be awarding a small amount of individual EP based on how much
effort people have/will put into their character concepts and
backstories. Think of it as an extra little reward for creating a
fully fleshed out character. Also, people who show up on time for a
session will receive more individual EP for that session than people
who arrive late. ~~#FF0000:In addition, I forgot to mention in email that anyone
who &quot;guest stars&quot; in a different group's session will not receive
additional session EP, but will receive bonus individual EP.~~

Secondly, don't forget that Deus Ultionis character concepts are due
by the end of tomorrow (Monday). All you need by then is a concept,
not a detailed backstory. The only person who still needs to give me a
concept is Aaron. I have heard at least the seed of an idea from
everyone else (enough to get you by for the next week).

However, the following people have not written about their concepts
officially on their public or private character pages:
*John, Eva, Danielle, Jon, Fae, Jason, Aaron

If you have time before tomorrow, it would be nice if you could write
some thoughts down. If you wait too long, you may find yourself with a
lot of work left in order to finish up your backstory and
questionnaire by Monday, August 8th, when they are due. Note that your
character's full name is a required part of the &quot;detailed backstory.&quot;

The following people have not yet met the requirements for the August
8th deadline:
*Paul, James, John, Eva, Danielle, Lucas, Jon, Megan, Fae, Jason, Aaron

Because I crave your rejection and hatred, I will send another
reminder in a few days.

-Curtis
