---
layout: page
title: Email200510041446
permalink: /deus/Email200510041446
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
Date: Oct 4, 2005 2:46 PM
Subject: Re: [[deus] action points

Just to be clear, the 3 action points per session do not accumulate if not used. Also, some more questions people had:

~~#7F007F:On 10/4/05, Eva wrote:
I'm just wondering, are you going to make provisions for any longer than normal sessions we end up planning? For example, if one of the Saturday sessions gets cancled and we agree to just play for 8 hours the next time, are we going to get 6 action points instead of 3?
(Another example might be if we have a longer than normal joint session. I seem to remember those taking a rather long time.)~~

I will not be granting additional action points, even for longer sessions. If people want more, they can buy 'em!

~~#7F007F:On 10/4/05, Allen wrote:
are you allowing the feats that let you increase the
die type from d6 to d8, as found in Eberon?~~

The Eberron action point feats are not available. However, I will allow a more reasonable variant:

__Action Boost [[General]__
By spending additional action points, you can boost the die type of an action roll to improve the results.

__Benefit:__ For each action point beyond the normal 1 spent to improve a d20 roll, the die type of your action dice improves by one (d8, d10, d12, d14, d16, d20, d24, d30). For example, a level 9 character who spends 5 action points rolls 2d14, adding the result of the highest-rolling d14 to the initial d20 roll.

~~#7F007F:On 10/4/05, Nate wrote:
One clarification please.  Is the 2mp for 1 action point in one session or 1 more action point each session?~~

It's one more action point each session.

Let me know if there are any more questions.

-Curtis
