---
title: Email200606080320
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
<br>Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:20 AM
<br>Subject: final session

Hi,

All three groups have completed session #17 -- all that remains is the finale joint session. One last reminder: the date of the finale is June 17th at 1:00 pm. The event will be held in the Computer Sciences building (we will meet in the lobby at 1:00 pm sharp). I have no idea how long it will last, but if possible, please plan for it to last late into the evening (the goal is to be completely finished before midnight, and ideally by 10 pm). My recommendation is to have already eaten lunch, or bring one. There will very likely be a break for dinner some time around 6 or 7.

Now that everyone has reached the end of time (where characters will receive profound insight into events relating to the resultant situation), I actively encourage you to talk to each other (especially other groups) about the events of the campaign thus far. To facilitate this, I have opened up the session notes pages so that anyone can read them (though I was too lazy to give everyone edit permissions, so it is still the case that only those present in a session can edit its notes). I know many of you are very busy (myself included), so if you don't have time to read the notes, that's ok, but like I said, I encourage it. I also encourage editing notes to clean them up; correct inconsistencies, errors and omissions; and flesh out details relevant to your character. I will try to find time to do some notes cleanup myself before next Saturday, but I make no guarantees.

Lastly, I plan to do one more pass through the NPCs, updating them and adding one more spoonful, before the final session. I'll send another email once I've done that.

I hope you all have enjoyed the campaign, and I look forward to seeing you for the finale. Thank you very much for playing -- it has been awesome!

-Curtis
