---
title: Email200508221648
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
<br>Date: Aug 22, 2005 4:48 PM
<br>Subject: character sheets

Hi everyone,

Final character sheets are due next Thursday, September 1st. You are
welcome to create a sheet on your own, or meet with me specifically to
do so. However, I will need to meet with you either way to discuss
your character and ratify your sheet.

I would prefer people post their merits &amp; flaws on their private
character pages, since it is easier to keep track of them that way,
but it is not a strict requirement.

The following people have finished everything, and need only show up
to the first session: Alex, Mark, Allen, Ozzyie, Athena, Nate, Joey,
Danielle.

The following people need to meet with me before September 1st to
finish character sheets: James, Paul, AJ, Andy, Griffin, Lucas, John,
Eva. Please call (438-6059), email, or IM (Restless Warrior on AIM) me
to schedule a time when we can meet.

Jason: I am hoping you will have time to work up a character before
September 1st. If not, it will be possible for you to join a little
later on.

Megan: In addition to your character sheet, you still need a detailed
backstory and questionnaire. These items are long overdue. I have been
patient but it is time for you to finish these up.

Mike: You said you were interested, but have not posted a concept, nor
have you contacted me with any questions. Since it is so close to the
start of the game, you will be dropped if I don't hear from you by
Wednesday.

-Curtis
