To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
Date: May 15, 2006 12:39 PM
Subject: searching the web site

Hi,

I finally figured out how to add a full-text search box to the Deus web site. You'll find it on the right beneath the login box.

Here are some notes from the TikiWiki documentation:

* + : A leading plus sign indicates that this word must be present in every object returned.
* - : A leading minus sign indicates that this word must not be present in any row returned.
* By default (when neither plus nor minus is specified) the word is optional, but the object that contain it will be rated higher.
* &lt; &gt; : These two operators are used to change a word's contribution to the relevance value that is assigned to a row.
* ( ) : Parentheses are used to group words into subexpressions.
* ~ : A leading tilde acts as a negation operator, causing the word's contribution to the object relevance to be negative. It's useful for marking noise words. An object that contains such a word will be rated lower than others, but will not be excluded altogether, as it would be with the - operator.
* * : An asterisk is the truncation operator. Unlike the other operators, it should be appended to the word, not prepended.
* &quot; : The phrase, that is enclosed in double quotes &quot;, matches only objects that contain this phrase literally, as it was typed.

Also, please note that there is a security flaw in the search engine, causing it to partially ignore page permissions. It will not turn up any &quot;GMs only&quot; pages (unless you are logged in as a GM), but it will find pages that some users can see but not others, even if you normally could not. For example, if you search for &quot;Session&quot; you'll see results including all three groups' session notes, whether or not you are a member of that group. Fortunately, the search results only show a short blurb from the page, so you won't be able to glean too much information this way. Since it is so close to the end of the campaign, the damage done by this addition is minimal in light of the usefulness.

-Curtis
