---
title: Email200505241552
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
<br>Cc: Eric
<br>Date: May 24, 2005 3:52 PM
<br>Subject: preliminary campaign setting and scheduling information

Hi everyone,

I have received numerous requests for campaign setting information. I
have written up some basic, preliminary information. It outlines some
of what has transpired between the events of Pax Artificium and the
beginning of Deus Ultionis. There is a fair amount of technological
progress detailed, but little political information. Have patience;
more will come within a couple of weeks.

Anyway, below is what I have so far. Please respond with any questions
or concerns you may have. Keep in mind that the information below is
not 100% set in stone. Though unlikely to change drastically, certain
details may be altered as necessary to serve people's character
concepts.

As for scheduling, I am planning to run one Saturday afternoon group
and one Wednesday evening group like I did with Pax, with the third
group on either Monday or Tuesday night, depending on what works for
people. Thursday or Friday night is also a possibility for the third
group, depending on what works for everyone, and on the status of
Jason and Jon's d20 games at the time.

The campaign will begin the first week of September, and will probably
run until summer 2006 (~18 sessions). The first session dates depend
on the day we choose for the third group, as follows:

Monday:
- Saturday, September 3rd at 2:00 pm
- Wednesday, September 7th at 6:30 pm
- Monday, September 12th at 6:30 pm

Tuesday:
- Saturday, September 3rd at 2:00 pm
- Wednesday, September 7th at 6:30 pm
- Tuesday, September 13th at 6:30 pm

Thursday:
- Saturday, September 3rd at 2:00 pm
- Thursday, September 8th at 6:30 pm
- Wednesday, September 14th at 6:30 pm

Friday:
- Saturday, September 3rd at 2:00 pm
- Friday, September 9th at 6:30 pm
- Wednesday, September 14th at 6:30 pm

Please respond with a list of days that work for you (your choices are
MTWRF evenings or Saturday afternoons). Please list all choices that
work, in order of preference, to make my job easier.

-Curtis

----
DEUS ULTIONIS

- On January 4th, 2034, the Voice of God radio station goes dead,
magic floods into the world, and a new god is born.


MID 21ST CENTURY:

- Shortly after the events of Pax Artificium, Earth undergoes drastic
upheaval as magic goes from myth to reality. Millions are discovered
to be &quot;mystics,&quot; people capable of channeling the mystic energy that
has been restored to the planet, accomplishing miraculous, impossible
things. The gift does not appear to favor race, nationality, or
gender, but does sometimes seem to run in families.

- At first, there is great discrimination and bigotry against mystics.
Some governments are so afraid of them that they hunt down mystics,
either banishing or imprisoning them. Other governments and
corporations know they can use them, and take steps to recruit them
into their ranks.

- The work of Canadian scientist Dr. Dirk Phoenix is instrumental in
the identification, tracking and control of mystics (he had invented
sensor technology for recognizing mystics and magical non-humans).
- Rogue Canadian agent Shawn Frederickson, though apprehended by
Phoenix for treason against the Canadian government, had discovered a
formula for temporarily enhancing a mystic's capabilities at the
expense of control (and at great risk to the mystic's life).
- Canadian agent Brutus Baxter (Frederickson's superior) passed this
formula on to American general Christopher Carter, whose agents then
discovered another compound (its inverse) capable of muting a mystic's
abilities temporarily, or even disabling them completely.
- Over the next few years, these drugs begin to be used by the
Canadian and US governments against mystics who cause trouble, and
eventually knowledge of the drugs spread throughout the world.

- Also confirmed to exist around this time are other sentient life
forms besides humans: the dwarves and gnomes living deep beneath the
earth's surface. Though initially spurned, the gnomish-dwarven
monarchy is accepted into the United Nations--and eventually given a
seat on the security council--when it becomes clear that they possess
more rich natural resources than any other nation on Earth.
- It becomes known that some of the dwarves specialize in a secret
&quot;spellbreaker&quot; technique that can combat mystics. Some governments
make deals to train their military in this technique in exchange for
undisclosed favors to the dwarven and gnomish peoples. Consequently,
their country becomes even more powerful.

- Soon, another race appears (literally--they are simply there one
day, claiming to have been asleep for the past 2000 years): a group of
friendly little people affectionately dubbed halflings by the other
races. Unfortunately, while they had once lived in burrows in hilly
terrain, there are no appropriate places left for them to settle in
peace, so they are forced to integrate into existing human cities.
Such a mass immigration causes difficulties, and the halflings are not
often welcomed. Many turn to crime to support themselves and their
families (they have found they have a natural talent for theft and
skullduggery).

- Everyone (especially corporations) soon discovers that keeping
secrets is now very difficult. Not only can mystics use a techique
known as divination to uncover hidden knowledge, but an algorithm
discovered by numerologist Dr. Daniel Miller also unveils shocking
truths on a variety of topics.


MID-TO-LATE 21ST CENTURY:

- Magitech is extremely controversial--it is known that they employ
any mystics they can find, and shamelessly promote magic as the path
toward the future. Their technology is nearly all magic-driven or
magic-derived.

- Dr. Dana Arthur of Magitech has transferred herself into a robotic
body, and becomes the first human with a totally robotic body. Over
the years, she improves this technology, building more and more
realistic human robots.


LATE 21ST CENTURY:

- Mystics are responsible for technology advancing faster than before,
including a quantum leap toward genetic engineering.

- WWIII. Sociopolitical tension results in one country panicking and
disregarding the principle of mutually assured destruction. Nuclear
strikes are launched, but an elite mystic unit led by a &quot;superhero&quot;
known as Speed Demon is able to prevent a nuclear disaster from
occurring.


EARLY 22ND CENTURY:

- Magitech completes Luna, the first lunar city. The space elevator
technology is improved, and several more are built in many of the
world's major cities.
- The city is much more advanced than Pax Artificium, and much, much
larger. Constructed with an artificial atmosphere and spanning over
700 square miles, Luna was designed to support 20 million people.

- It is known that magic does not function on the moon for some
reason. Scientists studying the phenomenon say that the moon is not
laced with mystic energy the way that Earth is. Many speculate that
mystic energy is unique to Earth.

- Dana Arthur's research allows those dying of various causes to have
their consciousness transferred into robotic bodies before death. This
process is expensive, and at first only special cases and the wealthy
can afford it. Magitech markets these robotic bodies as &quot;soulmechs.&quot;


EARLY-TO-MID 22ND CENTURY:

- Magitech begins research into a technique for funneling mystic
energy from the earth to the moon. After a few years, they deploy the
mystic funnel, infusing the moon with mystic energy, but it does not
last. Scientists learn that a given body's gravitational constant
determines how much mystic energy is required to create a
self-sustaining, magic-infused system.

- After further analysis, Magitech tries again, recruiting thousands
of mystics to funnel magic into the moon. This time it works, and the
moon reaches a state of mystic equilibrium. However, using magic
requires more effort on the moon (mystic effects are 1/6 as powerful,
since the gravity is 1/6 as strong).


MID 22ND CENTURY:

- WWIV. Shortly after the moon is infused with mystic energy, there is
another world war. More details of this war will be sent at a later
time. Tentatively, the political fallout of this war results in the
collapse of Magitech corporation.

- Yet another race makes its presence known: a strange race living
with the dwarves and gnomes, said to be of &quot;royal blood,&quot; called
simply &quot;the Royals&quot; by the dwarvish and gnomish peoples. Although one
rumor says they are crossbreeds of dwarves and gnomes, they do not
appear to possess a mixture of gnomish and dwarven features. Rather,
they are taller and thinner than humans, have bluish tinged skin and
elongated fingers.
- The members of this race pursue science, and make progress toward
genetic engineering goals as well as strides in artificial
intelligence.


LATE 22ND CENTURY:

- The fruits of science are ripe, with all fetuses conceived in
first-world countries being genetically treated to eliminate defects.
For a price, more intensive treatments can be done to &quot;enhance&quot; the
fetus in various ways.
- However, despite our in-depth understanding of the human genome,
science has not determined why certain people are born mystic and
others are not. There is much frustration, since it seems very likely
to be hereditary.


EARLY 23RD CENTURY:

- Mystics are largely accepted and taken for granted, and thanks to
the World Mystics Guild have become quite powerful. A class divide
forms between mystics and &quot;mundanes.&quot; Enmity between them increases,
although the mystics are careful not to abuse their power enough to
incite a revolt.

- Mystics have driven technological advancement for the past two
centuries. Mystic energy has been used to invent and create the
manufacturing technology necessary to produce other key technologies.


MID 23RD CENTURY:

- Artificial intelligence has come a long way. Computer algorithms
have become advanced enough that the machines outstrip humanoid
intelligence. However, no robot has been able to harness mystic
energy, no matter how realistic his programming.

- Daniel Miller's prophecy algorithm gives AIs who utilize it strange
precognition abilities, and ever-growing bits of knowledge about the
universe and its structure, adding to their already impressive
computational abilities.

- Dana Arthur's continuing robotics work allows these AIs to inhabit
bodies virtually indistinguishable from real humans.

- This generation of soulmechs combines many of the best attributes of
AIs and humans, such that human consciousness is brought to a new
level. Some of the world's most power mystics have transferred their
consciousnesses into soulmechs, prolonging their dominance and further
increasing their cognitive capabilities. No soulmech is quite as
efficient as a pure AI, however, since it is impossible to fully
integrate the artificial and natural intelligences into one
consciousness.

- The AIs continue to push technology to new limits. With the help of
the Royals, many of whom possess mystic (or, strangely, &quot;anti-mystic&quot;)
abilities, they produce a device capable of manipulating gravity
itself.

- This gravitic technology allows mystic energy to be compressed
within a small core, for later release. It is now possible to carry
enough mystic energy far enough through space to infuse Mars with
magic.

- With gravitic technology, near-light speeds are possible. Ships are
sent to colonize far-off worlds, carrying mystic cores with them. Once
magic has been infused on the target world, mystics can transport
themselves back and forth instantaneously.


MID-TO-LATE 23RD CENTURY:

- Nanotechnology has advanced sufficiently that machines can heal
themselves automatically, much as humans do, assuming they can find
the correct raw materials to ingest. The applications of nanobots are
countless.

- Ships have begun arriving at suitable colony points outside our
solar system. These include low-gravity moons with little to no
atmosphere that are ideal for mystic settlements, as well as the
occasional planet.
- Once these locations are infused, mystics return to earth to report
on the status of the colony. Supplies are transported back and forth
as needed from earth, although the mass of goods able to be
transported is severely limited.


LATE 23RD CENTURY:

- A group of reclusive druids known as Gaia's Ancient Order offers to
assist the various colonies in the creation of an arboretum on each
colony. Each arboretum is enclosed in its own massive biosphere, with
a &quot;heart tree&quot; at its center. This tree is heavily guarded by the
druids of the Order.


EVE OF THE 24TH CENTURY:

- The year is now 2299, 265 years after the events of Pax Artificium.
According to recent news, one of the outlying colonies has suddenly
become unreachable, without warning or explanation. Mystics attempting
to teleport to that location do not return. Divination about that
location reveals nothing. And AIs taking advantage of the Miller
algorithm cannot glean anything either...
