---
layout: page
title: Email200508041443
permalink: /deus/Email200508041443
category: deus
---
To: Deus Ultionis mailing list
<br>Date: Aug 4, 2005 2:43 PM
<br>Subject: final reminder for detailed character information

Hi everyone,

Detailed character information is due this coming Monday, August 8th.
This includes:
* Character questionnaire (linked from System page)
* Character backstory
* Full character name
* Public character description (spoiler-free -- whatever you are comfortable with people knowing out of game)

All of this information must be posted online.

You do not need to have merits &amp; flaws or class levels figured out
yet. Essentially, what I want by August 8th is character background,
not stuff specific to the d20 gaming system.

The following is a summary of the status of all players as of this writing:
* __Alex, Allen, Ozzyie, Nate, Joey:__ You are awesome and have already finished everything! All you have to do now is show up to the game. =)
* __Paul, AJ, Lucas:__ You have met the requirements for August 8th. You just need to meet with me at some point before September 1st to do your character sheet.
* __Mark, Athena:__ You are also awesome, since you have finished your character sheet. However, you still need to post a public character description.
* __Griffin:__ All you need for August 8th is a public character description of some sort.
* __Eva:__ You are close--you just need to fill out the questionnaire by August 8th.
* __Andy:__ The only things you still need are a character name and a public character description.
* __Megan:__ Your origin writeup is keen, but I'd appreciate a detailed backstory discussing your activities during the intervening years from then till now. Also, you need to fill out the questionnaire.
* __James, John, Danielle, Jon:__ You need to post a detailed backstory and fill out the questionnaire by August 8th, as well as provide a public character description.
* __Jason:__ I am hoping you will have time to work up a character before September 1st. If not, it will be possible for you to join a little later on.
* __Aaron &amp; Fae:__ Aaron didn't meet the August 1st deadline. I haven't actually spoken to either of you. James has vouched that you do want to be in the game, but if that's true I would like to hear it from you both personally. Aaron, if you email or call me (438-6059) with your character concept I'm still willing to let you play since you were notified about these deadlines so late. No matter what, I would like to hear from one or both of you ASAP to confirm your interest in the campaign.

It is unfortunate that I have to enforce these deadlines but I have
learned from previous campaigns that if I do not, there will be people
who never put forth the effort. This way, I find out who doesn't care
enough to design a robust character. If you are one of those people,
it's probably better you're not in the game anyway.

-Curtis
