---
layout: page
title: Talk20050911
permalink: /deus/Talk20050911
category: deus
---
Jasmine is the psion of the Destroyer, for reasons of balance (when the Destiny Force chose Brice as a psion, the Destroyer's psion was automatically chosen as well).

Eventually, Jasmine will betray the Destroyer, once she's realized that she's just another piece, no better than those serving the Destiny Force. She will become a rogue agent, attempting to &quot;break fate&quot; somehow.

The three parts of Divine Speech were linked to mortal vessels at the same time. At the instant the Occultem Lapidem was formed, Brice Murphy was striken by an illness caused by his simultaneous integration with the Divine Verb. Also at the same instant, a minister was laying hands on Russell Tanner Miner to fill him with the Holy Spirit, and the Divine Noun took up residence there. If these dates ever come up, they all match exactly.

The Destroyer, instead of having three parts of Divine Speech, has three parts of a Divine Calculus: the Divine Atom, Divine Operators, and Divine Relation. The Occultem Lapidem simultaneously represents the Divine Conjunction and the Divine Relation. [Nikolas](CharPrivateJon) is (or will become) the Divine Atom [Noun's]((CharPrivateNoun) opposite), while Jasmine is the Divine Operator [Brice's]((CharPrivateAndy) opposite).

These three pieces of Divine Calculus were intrinsically chosen when the Destiny Force split the Grammar into three mortals.

One prophecy that the Caretaker and/or McLean could know could go something like: &quot;Three and three they are, but two make one and one is three.&quot;

The Deus Ex Machina is designed as a device to counter the Destroyer somehow (to be fleshed out more later). However, the Caretaker needs an enormous amount of energy to power it. He needs the moon's help. In fact, his plan is to create a second Caretaker-like entity by empowering Cain, then merging him with Luna (less powerful than the Caretaker, though, because the moon is much smaller, and Cain is not nearly as strong as Emmanuel was). Together, then, they would have the energy required to drive the machine. Still, Korlax must write a program that the two entities would execute to combine their strengths and use the machine properly.

To empower Cain, his soul must first be cleansed, and the Caretaker is unsure how to accomplish this. Perhaps the Sun is capable of it, it thinks.

Jasmine's classes: Fast 3, Infiltrator 1, Entropomancer 5 (Complete Divine), Fatespinner 5 (Complete Arcane), Weaver 6 (Quintessential Sorcerer).
