---
layout: page
title: Talk20060319
permalink: /deus/Talk20060319
category: deus
---
## Jasmine's goals

*After seeing the tapestry of reality, Jasmine wants to assist the Destroyer in taking out the Destiny Force. She opens a portal to the end of time to do this.
*But once she steps through, she (and the PCs) experience the ultimate truth of the universe -- that it is a &quot;binary system.&quot; She realizes that even destroying what has been called the &quot;Destiny Force&quot; still serves a greater destiny. She decides that only by completely eliminating the dual universe can she &quot;defeat&quot; destiny.
*After that, her goal is to create a feedback loop between universes so that they destroy one another, permanently -- ending #1 from [Talk20060312](Talk20060312).
*Jasmine makes her position clear to the characters, that destiny is inescapable. She claims her attempt will undoubtably fail, but that she is dedicated to her goal nonetheless. She has to try. Thus, the party is faced with the dismal choice of allowing the dual universe to be destroyed, or killing Jasmine and &quot;giving in&quot; to destiny.


## Metaphysical, philosophical and ethical themes of the campaign

*Inescapability of destiny
*Necessity of sacrifice
*Elimination of solid lines dividing good and evil


## Stopping the Destroyer

*The nearest black hole &quot;big&quot; enough to trap the Destroyer is the one at the center of the Milky Way.
*Once it is trapped there, things are primed for the original epilogue, wherein advanced life forms descended from Terrans seed the black hole with mystic energy.


## Related notes

*The dual universes are interlocking, with the beginning of time for one being a point in time for the other.
*Jasmine is a sympathetic character in that her goals are admirable (fighting against inevitability) even if her methods are misguided.
*The co-GMs, Kelsey and James, disagree with everything. Paul, were he here, would also disagree with Curtis. Thus, this campaign sucks.
*James disagrees even with the above, stating that the campaign does not, in fact, suck. He then kills Curtis, leaving him free to run the campaign as he sees fit. Thus, the not sucking is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Destiny cannot be escaped.


## Zee and the Oversoul

*Ti Lung is able to at least partially escape the Oversoul, through Zee.
*Zee's body has become more draconic, to form a better vessel.
*But Ti Lung still cannot completely escape, at least not yet.
*The Oversoul grows more bitter and resentful over Ti Lung's capability, originally granted to her with the help of the Oversoul in its entirety.
*The willing deaths of the Syndicate members will &quot;sweeten the pot&quot; somewhat, lessening the Oversoul's bitterness.


## Campaign outline

__[[Mon 14, 15, 16]__
*Encounter Blacksoul's ghost
*Find Cain in Arcadia (Nikolai)
*Locate DEE on Laboro (Adam/DEE)
*Syndicate suicide (Vittorio)
*Jasmine crisis (Brice)
*Gaddelsmocks conspiracy (Ariona)
*Brotherhood job offer (Unity)
*Research alternate Void theory (Ariona, Nikolai &amp; Unity)
*Fulfill Xela's bargain

__[[Wed 12, 13, 14]:__
*Tell UNF about pirates (Ridge, Laiden, Trenton, Malcolm)
*Tell Gaia's Order about pirates (Fey)
*Restore Malcolm's powers (Malcolm)
*Recover Pronoun (Noun)
*Heal Ridge's family's minds (Andrew, Ridge)
*Evade bounty hunters after Laiden (Laiden)
*Address smear campaign against Ridge &amp; co. (Ridge)
*Stop Strife's revenge (Trenton)
*Expose the Brotherhood/Pandora connection (Trenton)
*Track down William Moss (Fey)

__[[Sat 13, 14]:__
*Matt's enemies? (Matt)
*Zee's origins? (Zee)
*Cure Bryant with Ambrosia (Max)
*Escape from Eddie (Vadril, Brice?)
*Deus rite/Destroyer attack
*Convert Eddie into the Deus Ex Machina core (Vadril, Eddie)
*Glaurung's return (Rae)

__[[Wed/Sat 15, 16]:__ Technofearful (Trenton, Max)

__[[Mon 17]:__ Mordred (optional)
__[[Wed 17]:__ Moss &amp; Nyx (optional)
__[[Sat 17]:__ Huntington (optional)

__[[Joint 18]:__ Jasmine


## Destiny tokens

Starting at session #14 (10th level), each party is granted one &quot;destiny token&quot; per session to use for altering what is yet to come. By presenting the destiny token and stating a rule describing the immediate situation and starting with &quot;It is fated that,&quot; the statement comes true. For example, &quot;It is fated that Max will not die now&quot; or &quot;It is fated that Noj &amp; Sitruc lose this fight.&quot; All players must agree on a statement before it can take effect.

However, the GM also has one destiny token per session. For joint sessions, each party has a token, but the GM has the same total number as well.
