---
layout: page
title: Talk20060219
permalink: /deus/Talk20060219
category: deus
---
Salt was destroyed relatively easily... that's because Sulphur tried an experiment, allowing the Salt glyph to be destroyed. Sulphur theorized that it would not destroy Salt completely, but rather free it from its physical binding -- and it was right. Now, it also wants its own glyph destroyed.

When Bryant dropped the Crown after regaining control of his body, Sulphur and Salt jumped ship to the Crown, since it is their best hope of participating in the ritual. Salt is now free, but Sulphur still needs to have its glyph destroyed. So it appears inset in a yellow gem on the Crown, hoping to entice the party to destroy it.

Once Sulphur's glyph is destroyed, their power is even more unbound. If Huntington is near the Crown, they may make another attempt on his life, or maybe not. It depends if they are willing to risk exposing themselves as being within the Crown before the day of the ritual.

At some point, if the Crown, Zee and Huntington are all in the same place at the same time, preferably somewhere with mystic energy, the thing with Zee stealing the Crown and turning into Coyote happens.

As for Mercury, it was more profoundly affected than Salt, because not only was the glyph destroyed, it was done with the Longinus Spear. However, Mercury still lies dormant within the scar on Max's hand. Over time, it begins to spread, becoming more complex (like a fractal or Eberron Dragonmark). It gives Max certain unique abilities (temporarily merge with others -- e.g., Yakfolk's body meld, p. 201 of MM2), but also interferes with his doppleganger shifting. Huntington says that if it is not removed, eventually he will die. If Max decides to cut it off with the Spear, the body part becomes the Body Part.

Regarding Harry Bryant himself, though no longer under the direct control of the O.L., his mind has been permanently twisted. He teleported himself away to survive, and now pursues the dissolution of all things himself. He has burrowed into the Moon and is (very) slowly eating it from the inside out. It might be possible to locate the spot where he burrowed in, because the ground through which he dug has been replaced with a replica made of the grey goo nanites (nearly indistinguishable from the &quot;real thing&quot;). The burrow location is not in Pax Artificium, but rather Lunar City.

One possible way to &quot;cure&quot; Bryant would be for him to devour the Ambrosia (which he would gladly do, since currently his goal is to devour everything).

Where is Ambrosia (food)? Where is the Shroud of Turin (cloth)?

After working on the grey goo with McLean, Hoenir moved on to studying the effects of Forterol variants on mystics. He is somehow linked to Ian Thorpe, and his death. But how?

-----

There is still the possibility of danger from the remaining nanites. Further investigate yields the fact that the nanites have infested the walls, floors and go deeper than previously believed. Attempts to mystically destroy it only result in an equal amount being regenerated.

The UNF takes charge of cleanup efforts. David Crowe appears and along with Khan wants everyone taken into custody. Huntington agrees to cooperate with the investigation. He promises to explain the situation on their behalf to both Khan and the inevitable UNF inquiry.

If people return to DEE (or at least leave Lupus): the New Lunar Order attacks the ship, with at least one psionic elf (Seth) in charge of the assault. DEE enters the anger stage of rampancy, destroys the vessels, and jettisons all life forms (including the droid) from himself, including Cain's body, after a ten-second countdown (which is actually seven seconds long).

DEE then leaves them there in space to fend for themselves, and proceeds to scour the asteroid belt for unsavory ships, which he hacks and takes over to build a fleet. Eventually, he takes his fleet to Luna, to take revenge against the elves, Magitech and Pax Artificium.

What's next for Monday?

What's next for Saturday?
