---
layout: page
title: Talk20060116
permalink: /deus/talk-20060116
category: deus
---
Moss escapes and moves his base of operations to Mars. He rejoins Nyx, who has discovered the newly awakened Ares, and is whispering in his ear. Nyx still wants to stop Luna from being merged with Cain, and thus plans to use the undead army that Moss is amassing beneath the ruins of the colony to do so. Moss is designing an &quot;evil Pax,&quot; an subterranean necropolis.

''K: Moss no longer cares about Luna and Cain being merged, and won't work to stop or promote it.  He is concerned about taking over the universe, and will work to consolidate his power and take over Mars.  He and Nyx are also working on a way to taint Ares with undead influence, but the process is slow.  Moss is going to attempt to get his stuff back from the Monday group as soon as they wander back into a mystic area (he probably has a warded divination up that will alert him as soon as they do), and this will have some ramifications based on what he manages to retrieve.  If he gets the Pax sensor back, then the Mars colony (and the necropolis) will be sensorified as Pax was.  If anyone steps foot on Mars, Moss will know it.  If he gets the disintegration rifle, then he'll do scary things, like arming his undead army with them.''

''K: I'll also point out that Moss probably *was* hit by backlash when he channeled that kind of healing magic against Cain.  Hmmm...  have we done anything with backlash and healing magic in the past?  There's probably going to be some plague.  The Monday and Wednesday parties may have to make Fort saves against disease, and that area of Mars might spawn a plague that hits the colonists that return.  At the very least, the zombies could really be plague zombies, and there could be a disease element to William Moss.  Either way, he probably can channel purity magic now.''

''Heh...  Moss.  More like __lich__en, now.''

The Mars colony is being rebuilt, but strange things sometimes occur. Some people have claimed to have seen ghosts of those who died on Mars during the Cain incident, and people who venture too far afield from the new city often disappear never to be seen again.

The Fearful have survived without mystic energy because their incredibly strong will to survive has manifested itself as a weak psionic field just powerful enough to sustain them.

DEO is capable of sapping their weak psionic field, thus killing them after a time (months), but the technofearful are very intelligent and will eventually figure out how to breach DEO's fearful containment, and take over the ship.

''K: I'll point out that DEO probably uses straight up white goo in its core, which means that when containment is breached, it'll just be the Fearful that take the ship, not the Technofearful.  I'm not sure if this will matter.''
