To form the storm, Jungel asked Himmel (&quot;sky&quot;) for help. The ecosystem there is capable of creating such powerful storms and directing them. Also, the sea is called Hav.

Could Zee have been a bodyguard for Adana and Evan, or some other important Magitech person?

Max's nanites integrate with the Fearful, forming the Technofearful, which quickly adapt to FTL travel in metal spheres containing individual ecosystems.

Nanites from Mercury will then be useless against the Fearful, because they have already learned to integrate these nanites. However, the Occultem Lapidem could potentially take control of the entire Fearful population -- or at least manipulate it.

Glaurung appears in the same system as the Fearful. The Saturday group somehow gets in contact with them (either Dragonstar detects them, or they send a signal, or something). But Glaurung uses all kinds of psionic power to transport them from the Fearful's world back to Dragonstar, and the Fearful totally freak out.

The U.N. Forces might deploy the grey goo against the Fearful if they invade. Also possible, if Dragonstar brings the Saturday group back to Sol, then the grey goo may also be deployed against Dragonstar. This could result in a joint Wednesday/Saturday session.

Back to Monday: Moss is still working with the Caretaker. He knows about the plan to augment Luna. So does Nyx, but she hates the plan, and had a falling out with Moss about it. She was never comfortable with the idea of Gaia becoming the Caretaker, and as time went on began to feel it was a mistake, and that Emmanuel should simply have been either banished or destroyed.

To Nyx, Luna is a sort of &quot;second chance&quot; at nature being the way it should be. The Great Forests, her design, could potentially be part of some plan or other to combat what Moss is doing (maybe).

What if the Fearful infected the Great Forests? That would be awesome.

The elves have sided with Nyx on the Luna issue, because Nyx did not share the full details of what is going on. Nyx is so paranoid about the Caretaker's actions that she believes that the Emmanuel half is taking over and going crazy.

Adana and Evan know that the Syndicate is making ins in StratCo, to gain control of it. They allow this to partially occur, rather than revealing their hand to stop it (and thus only abate the problem temporarily). Thus, they pretend to be rivals (StratCo vs Magitech), while secretly working together, so that the Syndicate cannot corrupt Magitech the way it did StratCo. Also, they haven't fully lost control of StratCo; the company is once again divided.

Midgard sides decisively with the Caretaker, since Alfadir is the original Royal, and fully obeys his &quot;father's&quot; wishes. Plus, they are of a similar mindset to the Caretaker.

The Syndicate was originally a byproduct of Noj &amp; Sitruc's game. Probably formed in approximately the 1500s.

When Cain died, Emmanuel grabbed his soul like usual. By the time Emmanuel merged with Gaia millennia later, Cain's soul had grown much more large and powerful -- large enough that it could potentially become a full-fledged Emmanuel-like entity. The Caretaker is unwilling to cast Cain's soul into the sun to be purified because that would kill both the &quot;alien&quot; part (Emmanuel) and the &quot;corrupted&quot; (undead) part, when what it wants is to simply purge the corruption, while leaving the alien, so that it can be successfully merged with Luna.

Moss is studying the vampires to find a way to purge their corruption manually (i.e., without the sun's power). However, this is taking a huge toll on him. Coupled with this strain is the fact that in return for allowing Moss to experiment upon them, the vampires are demanding regular feedings from him, because of his powerful mystic abilities and Gaian nature.

The vampires are associated with the Syndicate. Moss may have called in other favors from them as well (to be specified later, perhaps).

Moss was funding Bernstein in the hopes that his research would unlock additional mystic genetic knowledge, that could be used to boost his mystic abilities further.

Jasmine makes it clear that StratCo was responsible for Bernstein's abduction, and that he has already been transported out of the building, most likely.

