!!Harry Bryant's origins

Spymaster &amp; nanomagus. A fallen half-celestial named Pippurforth Pennington Pebbleson, Junior.  After Pippurforth Senior finished his stairway to heaven, he ascended into the celestial realm and, eventually, had a son.  His half-celestial son was very intelligent, and was trained by Pip in engineering and science, with some training as a mystic as well.  However, Pip Jr. began to have a philosophical falling out with the celestials, insisting that the &quot;good&quot; action did not always serve the greater good, and in some cases was actually the wrong thing to do.  As a result, he was cast out of heaven.

Now on Earth, Pip Jr. worked to find his people, the gnomes, and ended up working for Xela and the royals for a time.  Eventually, he ended up communing with the Caretaker and found that his view on &quot;doing whatever is necessary for the greater good&quot; was echoed quite strongly, and ended up defecting to the side of the Caretaker.  He received an item from the Gaians that enabled him to take the guise of a human.  So, he forged the identity of Adam McLean, and submerged himself entirely in his new disguise.

He took down Jonathan Cohen after he showed himself to be an &quot;enemy of the Caretaker&quot; during the discussions regarding the grey goo demonstration.

!!Deus rite

Who attends the Deus rite?
*Vadril, Max, Zee, Matt
*Cain
*Merlin Huntington
*Adana Cassenti
*Alfadir
*Seeker (abundant step outside once things get hairy out there)
*Gaia's Ancient Order:
**Elana Connendeol
**Liza (with acorn necklace, though not necessary here)

Who protects the rite from interference?
*Ariona, Vittorio, Brice, Adam and/or DEE, Unity, Nikolai
*Gerald
*Gaia's Ancient Order:
**Sledge Greenhorn
**Hordes of Gaians (trolls, beholders, basilisks, etc.)
*Lefty (president of the World Mystics Guild)
*Jasmine, maybe

Who attacks the rite from outside?
*New Lunar Order:
**Selena Sharptooth
**Vampires (Hunter, Kimi, Petrov) -- allied with the goal of embracing Cain
**Hordes of Gaians (werewolves, pixies, etc.) with cybernetic enhancements and cutting edge military equipment (secretly from StratCo)
**&quot;Meera&quot; (werewolf from the 7th basement level), unleashed by Sharptooth
*Mordred, just because he can (opposed by Seeker and his &quot;2265-year punch&quot;)
*Damocles Experiment Omega (see ((Talk20060312))) -- deployed by Evan Cassenti specifically to target the area where the Deus rite is taking place, to attempt to disrupt the massive energies being channeled there by the Caretaker and others
