I had a talk with Kelsey today about the politics of StratCo and Magitech. Here is the idea that Kelsey came up with regarding the abduction of Dr. Bernstein, Jasmine de Vide, and the rationale for how it happened. It needs more polish, but is a good start.

What if a journalist is digging into Magitech and discovering too much (possibly something about the Syndicate)? So StratCo and Magitech (working together secretly) arrange for a &quot;smear campaign&quot; against Magitech, that can be proven demonstrably false later on, to ruin his reputation.

The journalist must be really high-profile, such that they cannot risk taking him out directly.

They make sure Jasmine de Vide has been seen publically entering Magitech, and also seen walking down the street carrying Bernstein's unconscious body. The goal is to induce the journalist to publish accusations against Magitech, then publically disprove them. The disproof is easily accomplished once StratCo has altered Bernstein's memory so that he doesn't remember the incident (and so that Divination doesn't reveal the truth). Bernstein is released, and he explains that he's been working for StratCo, and was in seclusion to protect his research during its final stages.

Supposedly, the explanation is that Jasmine was a Magitech employee by day, and a ne'er-do-well for hire by night. Jasmine was actually hired by StratCo, and has now conveniently disappeared.

Jasmine wasn't actually supposed to be killed -- just drugged then studied, since StratCo learned of her unique &quot;mind blank&quot; ability preventing Divination or Mind Control from working on her. But since she got away, they are trying to find her.

Also problematic are the PCs, who are way too close to what is going on. Magitech and StratCo will have to arrange something to stop them, or buy them off. Maybe they will be brought in to speak to Adana Cassenti herself, who will explain the situation to them somehow.

-----

Also of note: Astarte Cassenti did try to port away with Moss, not by herself. But Moss had added a protection to the sanctum to disallow him from being ported by anyone but himself.
