---
layout: page
title: Talk20060201
permalink: /deus/talk-20060201
category: deus
---
Xela killed Thorpe to separate the Canadian secret agent soul from the Ian Thorpe soul. She may have had Thorpe reincarnated into a new body, or actually captured his soul (or both souls) then to insert into a soulmech. Why? Figure this out later!

Who is Matt Smith's father? Did Dana Arthur really use her own DNA? Does she even have access to her own DNA, since she is a soulmech?

Eddie &quot;turned off&quot; his communication with the Caretaker, to hide from it. But the Caretaker may still be aware of Eddie's existence. It may have been paying attention to a miller prophecy indicating it should not dissect and study Eddie... yet. The Caretaker may not have all the components of the Deus Ex Machina figured out yet, but the miller algorithm has indicated that it *will* know. The Caretaker is planning to capture Eddie soon, by sending agents (Sledge and others, using a magnetic bottle) to escort back to Earth.

Coyote -- A man in a tophat, with a white mask with neutral mouth, black suit, white gloves, and a collapsable swordcane (that can disappear) -- possesses powers of illusion and phantasmal killer -- huge deflection bonus to Defense.

Zee has been programmed by Huntington. Near the end of the joint session, if they succeed in acquiring the crown (again), Zee steals it. When he touches it, it turns into a tophat, which he puts on. His outfit transforms such that he looks like Coyote, and then everyone will probably move to strike him down. His body evaporates when he takes a certain amount of damage (possibly even any damage at all), and nothing remains.

Possibly Huntington &quot;saves the day&quot; here by uncovering invisible Zee, disabling him and recovering the Crown. But why would Huntington have even been there in the first place? Suspicious. If we go with a variant of this plan, then Huntington also finds evidence of mind control tampering within Zee, and &quot;fixes&quot; it. All he wants in exchange is permission to attend the Deus rite, because it is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to witness the birth of the new gestalt consciousness.

Alternately, if Huntington does not show up, they need someone to divine Zee's location. Huntington would agree to assist with this, if they contact him.

Huntington attempts to steal the Oversoul for himself... whereas the O.L. attempts to jump ship from Bryant into the Oversoul. As a result, something happens (flesh this out more) wherein Huntington ends up with the O.L., but otherwise Huntington's plan is countered, the Oversoul ends up successfully merged with Cain, and Cain+ successfully merged with Luna.

However, Huntington is very powerful. He learns to control the O.L. very quickly, and the O.L. becomes the Philosopher's Stone, which he can use to transmute anything to anything. (That doesn't mean the Stone isn't still whispering in his ear, however, subtly affecting him...)

