---
layout: page
title: Talk20060212
permalink: /deus/talk-20060212
category: deus
---
Where are the Zodiacs now?
1. __Aquarius__ (wacky, eccentric) -- one of Zuul's two Zodiacs
1. __Aries__ (evil: warlike, temperamental) -- destroyed by Magitech
1. __Cancer__ (maternal, softhearted) -- currently employed by Magitech
1. __Capricorn__ (evil: ambitious, forceful) -- destroyed by Magitech
1. __Gemini__ (talkative, quick thinking) -- destroyed (split into two for Noj &amp; Sitruc's new amulets near the conclusion of Pax)
1. __Leo__ (proud, outgoing) -- Boris Derrota's psicrystal
1. __Libra__ (style, wit, charm, balance) -- Xela
1. __Pisces__ (very/too emotional, artistic) -- one of Zuul's two Zodiacs
1. __Sagittarius__ (very creative, energetic) -- requested a robotic body (i.e., a soulmech); went on to work for StratCo on the Damocles project (transferred to Mercabah); invented the miller2 algorithm; obsessively ran the miller algorithm nearly constantly; fled Mercury shortly before the incident; current whereabouts unknown
1. __Scorpio__ (evil: secretive, brooding) -- escaped from Magitech and became a pirate in the asteroid belt; currently at Boneyard 47 base
1. __Taurus__ (conservative, slow to change, collects material wealth) -- Anika Derrota (gift from Boris)
1. __Virgo__ (perfectionist: modest, shy, meticulous, reliable, diligent, analytical) -- (accidently) trasmuted into Laiden's psicrystal

The meeting with Sergei Garibaldi:
* The Garibaldi family restaurant is called the Grand Ticino Restaurante Italiano.
* If Vitto goes looking for Emilio and Bianca, he can find them. But if Bianca learns that Emilio is having second thoughts, then she kills him with poison (potentially before Emilio can remind Vitto of the truth).
* Otherwise, Emilio is waiting for Vittorio at the restaurant on the day of the meeting (July 21st).
* It is possible Meechum could get his hands on a blood sample (especially if Emilio ends up dead from poison), and if so, Meechum can find the nanites in the blood (either from analysis or from simply consuming it) -- nanites that match those from Ned's sword (if Meechum has even seen those).

Other stuff:
* William Moss does show up once they are in a mystically infused area. He wants his stuff back from Ariona, and he also briefly talks to Meechum (see [Monday10](monday-10) notes).
* Brice learns more about Eddie's nature as a computer (this must occur before they enter Earth's atmosphere).
* Meechum may contact the Brotherhood (up to Joey).
* Ariona may reply to Deblin Gaddelsmocks (up to Alex).
* Ned may attempt to contact the Saturday group (up to Nate).
* DEE may attempt to do something angry (up to Griffin).
* Eddie probably stays on DEE and builds things, unless DEE goes to Earth. In that case, he arranges a way to meet the party again in the future.
