---
title: Talk20060430
category: deus
---
## Ideas
* If the Technofearful battle the undead on Mars, then Aries should throw Phobos into a Technofearful vessel.

## The question of free will
* Everything in the universe is written on the tapestry of reality -- the Destiny Force itself.
* Only entities from outside the universe (the Destiny Force [[Brahma], the Destoyer [[Shiva] and Emmanuel [[Vishnu]), and agents thereof (e.g., Noun), can flout the tapestry.
* The universe is one half of a larger structure, a &quot;mobius strip&quot; of sorts, connecting it to another universe, the antiverse.
* The antiverse is made of antimatter, but similarly governed. Things from our universe that go there can flout ''its'' laws.
* However, when taken in total, the sum of reality may or may not be governed by an overarching tapestry that takes crossover into account.
* In the final session, if the characters allow Jasmine to destroy all of reality (by opening a channel between universes so that matter and antimatter can freely interact), then it could be the case that there was free will after all -- or it could be that the &quot;mobius strip&quot; was unstable, and imploded.
* However, if they stop her from destroying everything, then that lends credence to her claim that she was destined to fail, and that the structure of reality is completely static. Time, space, consciousness... everything is an illusion -- simply an expression of cosmic structure.

## Resolving plot threads
* __Technofearful__ -- They destroy the Deus Ex Machina? (They observe Lilith, Caretaker and Io channeling &quot;evil&quot; mystic energy into it, and the Peacemaker being &quot;summoned&quot; by it, or &quot;feeding&quot; off it at the channeling point.) If they assist Jasmine or are responsible for the portal to the end of time due to their actions, then it makes them even more relevant to the ultimate plot, and it also provides an excuse to delve into their history on Earth should they also proceed through the portal.
* __Mars__ -- How are William Moss and Aries relevant to the story? Are they simply a foil for the Technofearful? Or do they join forces with them to destroy the machine? If so, to what end? Does Moss simply wish to destroy the triumvariate, leaving him in control of Aries, the now most powerful being in known space?
* __Damocles Experiment Omega__ -- Does StratCo deploy the prototype? If so, when? Does it try to interfere with the Deus rite somehow? If so, how? Can Monday stop it?

## Campaign outline

__[[Mon 16]__
* Stop Mordred and the New Lunar Order from disrupting the Deus rite
* The appearance of Damocles Experiment Omega
* The impact of the Destroyer's appearance on Jasmine

__[[Mon 17]__
* Gaddelsmocks conspiracy (Ariona)
* Brotherhood job offer (Unity)
* Fulfill Xela's bargain (Nikolai)
* Jasmine and Nikolai's portal to the end of time

__[[Wed 15]:__
* Rescue Fey and Bullettrain on Arcadia
* Expose the Brotherhood/Pandora connection (Trenton)
* Bounty hunters after Laiden (Laiden)
* Ascend the stairway to heaven (Noun, Malcolm)
* Stop Strife's revenge (Trenton)

__[[Wed/Sat 16]:__
* Technofearful trash Wolf 359
* Huntington reveals his true colors

__[[Wed 17]:__
* Technofearful move on to Mars
* Moss, Nyx &amp; Aries

__[[Sat E1]:__
* Storm StratCo headquarters

__[[Sat 17]:__
* Huntington taken into custody by the Arcane Order
* The party is called to testify as witnesses

__[[Joint 18]:__
* Jasmine's final move (see &quot;the question of free will&quot; above)

