-=Demon Notes=-

Introduction.  You are a demon:  A powerful malevolent spiritual entity that can assume many different physical forms.  You have an unquenchable desire to increase your power and improve your rank among your fellow demons.  You exist in a world predominantly inhabited by mortals much weaker than yourself who stand between you and your ascension to power.  However, their numbers more than compensate for their weaknesses and a handful of them have a strength of will as strong or even stronger than yours.  Therefore, you must tread carefully in this realm lest you be banished.

Demonic forms.  You have a choice between 7 different body types to inhabit.  Each body type carries its own strengths and weaknesses while influencing which types of evil acts you currently prefer.
tTerror:  A terror enjoys tearing apart living organisms.  It enjoys chasing prey, causing blood to spill from bodies, and watching the fearful looks on the faces of its victims.  Slaughter and Fear are the terror's goals.  The terror is the fiercest demon, but lacks finesse.  Its magical powers will tend to be focused on mass murder (Fireball, Blizzard).  It has low defensive capabilities and cannot wield most weapons or wear most armor.  However, when there are no enemies left to hurt you, why would you need defense?  What terrors look like:  Diablo from Diablo2, Deathclaw from Fallout, Tarrasque (smaller version) from D&amp;D.  They stand at 8ft. starting off and can grow to much larger sizes.  Starting Form Bonuses: +2 O, AOE Boost-extra "free" rank to be spent on any AOE spell powers that involve dealing direct damage (if you use a Fire5 effect you can choose to have its AOE enhanced as if you spent Fire6 to create a Fire5 effect with enhanced AOE).
tRuiner:  A ruiner dislikes buildings, walls, castles, forts, and mechanical devices because it believes such constructions despicable.  However, it finds a magically constructed demonic fortress acceptable.  A ruiner delights in entropy and fatigue.  It believes that there is no true purpose to life so work is a wasted effort, and so it would prefer to sleep all day.  However, the ruiner finds its duty in life to &quot;teach&quot; others the values of laziness and the errors of their productive ways.  Sloth and Destruction are foremost to a ruiner.  A ruiner is like a tank:  slow, but extremely massive; poor at killing infantry (unless it runs over them), but unmatched in breaking down barriers.  It cannot use weapons or armor at all, but doesn't need them.  It is tough to kill due to its protective shell and defensive spells (Shell and Protect).  Other offensive spells tend to cause buildings to crumble (Earthquake, Flood) and machinery to malfunction.  What ruiners look like:  Giant turtle with horns and spikes, Anklyosaurus.  They start off only 6ft. at the top of their shell but span to 10ft. in length and 4ft. width.  They can get much bigger in all dimensions.  Starting Form Bonuses:  +2 D, Penetration-reduce DR for Piercing, Slashing, and Bludgeoning resistances of targets by 1/10% each (assuming they have those DRs).
tGlutton:  A glutton likes to eat but doesn't like anyone else to.  It loves to poison rivers, spread disease, and pollute the air with its gas.  Gluttony and Pestilence are on the glutton's agenda.  A glutton is fat, ugly, and disgusting-but these are strengths not weaknesses.  They are slow, but have many indirect offensive and defensive capabilities that cause enemies to squirm:  Flies, acids, poisons.  They cannot wear armor, but can use most weapons-not that they need to.  Their spells are mainly offensive (no pun intended-Gas cloud, Swarm, Paralyze, Petrify) but they are extremely effective.  Gluttons also have  immense HP totals which tend to regenerate quickly.  What gluttons look like:  Bile Demon from Dungeon Keeper, Impure King from FF Tactics, Abomination from Warcraft3, Grotesque from Diablo2.  4-6ft. tall.  They are fat and tend to have body parts in places they shouldn't be, eyes on their head or perhaps a giant mouth on its belly.  Starting Form Bonuses: +20 HP, Channel HP-able to enhance the effect of a power by spending 10 HP to add a rank to that power (can only be done once per action).
tTrickster:  A trickster delights in the frustrations of others.  It enjoys cheating, stealing, and causing havoc.  It loves to collect and horde the valuables of others.  Tauntings and traps are its fortes.  Chaos and Greed make up a trickster's repertoire.  The trickster is small and physically weak, but strong in every other regard.  It uses speed and wits to conquer foes.  The perfect spy, a trickster can sneak around unseen while literally "taking away" the enemy's advantage.  Spotting hidden doors is also a bonus.  They dislike wielding large weapons and armor.  A trickster fights well from a distance and has many useful support spells (Haste, Blink, Slow, Hold).  They also love Lightning spells.  What tricksters look like:  Imp (with/without wings), Leprechaun.  Small, 1-3 ft. tall.  Starting Form Bonuses:  Gain 6 free ranks in any of the following traits-Fly, Stealth, Find/Locate, Sleight of Hand, Awareness, Taunt, Disable, Trick, Speed, (others available if they make sense).
tDeceiver:  Deceivers are devious talkers and seducers.  They make excellent diplomats because they have the uncanny ability to convert enemies into friends in very short periods of time.  They love causing friends to fight, married couples to spar, and families to turn on each other over petty jealousies.  Corruption and Deception are the deceiver's main sources of entertainment.  The deceiver is not the best demon in the fighting department, but excels at convincing others not to fight (Sleep, Suggestion).  It fools the enemies with its illusionary spells (Phantasm, Image) and makes them fight each other (Confusion, Charm).  They also tend to favor missile weapons.  What a deceiver's original form looks like:  Succubus, Siren, Nymph, Flea from ChronoTrigger. Mystique form Xmen.  Starting Form Bonuses:  Gain 3 Free ranks in any of the following traits-Bluff, Seduction, Diplomacy, CopyCat, (more possible), Shapeshift-a deceiver can shapeshift into any known humanoid form, male or female, mimicking any visible physical features and vocal sounds, but not mannerisms inherent to an individual nor clothing or objects worn by that creature.
tWarlock:  Warlocks are power seekers and envy those who have it.  They want to be the most powerful beings in existence.  Their method is to seek out ancient texts and powerful artifacts, hoping to increase their knowledge of arcane lore and possibly stumbling across some spell that will bring them to godhood.  Ambition and Envy encompass the warlock.  Warlocks are the third of the physically challenged demons, but their magical prowess is unmatched.  They have a spell for almost any problem they might encounter, while being heavily resistant to magical attacks.  They can take down stronger enemies by cursing them and waiting for them to &quot;soften up&quot;.  A warlock is also capable of learning spells that he witnesses being cast, even ones targeted at him.  They can decipher any writing, and can spot and determine any amount of magical potency.  What warlocks look like:  Magus from Chrono Trigger, Dark Wanderer from Diablo2, Lejes from 7th Saga, Golbez from FF4.  Human height, variable.  Starting Form Bonuses: +20 MP, Learning-able to decipher scripts or written languages (given some time) and can also learn the first rank of spells when they are cast.
tArcane:  Arcanes are just your all-around garden variety demon.  They enjoy, and frequently carry out, all sorts of evil acts-whatever fits the situation.  Arcanes believe they are the best of all the demons and that they deserve to rule all because of it.  Pride and Dominance are what makes the Arcane.  Arcanes have no noticeable weaknesses and excel both physically and mentally.  However, they do tend to act overconfidently by charging into battle before sizing up their opposition first-they assume that their victory is assured.  Retreat is a rare option for the Arcane.  Their magic consists of enhancing equipment and summoning creatures to do their bidding.  What Arcanes look like:  Balrog form D&amp;D, Venom Lords from Diablo2, A Gargoyle from the animated TV series: Gargoyles.  7ft. tall starting off.  Starting Form Bonuses:  +1 CA, Command-Can give one other demon on the Arcane's side +1CA or +1 rank to a trait or power for the combat round (no action needed).
tThese are just the most basic forms a demon can occupy.  For the purposes of KST it is assumed that you have the same number of CPs in each of your forms even if your abilities change due to becoming a different form.  When you change form, just keep the list of abilities you have for that form because you may revert back on a later date.  Any knew CPs gained for any reason are applicable to all forms.  However, any specific abilities you gain while in one form are not applicable in the other forms.  This progression may seem slower than just having one form, but keep in mind that whenever you die (whenever you want to essentially) you can switch into your choice of 6 (minimum) other completely different forms with completely different abilities.  Other non-demon characters just die and have to make a new character.  Alternatively, if you still think your character would be "inferior" due to slower progression, you can always just choose to come back as the same form you were before death, so there is really no penalty at all.

Overlords.  All demons work for an overlord.  An overlord is an exceptionally powerful demon that has been given the task of corrupting a world by an even more powerful fiend that resides in an underworld.  The overlord follows its orders dutifully because demons generally do not like to hang out in underworlds for all eternity, it gets boring.  The overlord gives you orders like any given boss-go do this or that.  Upon successfully completing missions, demons are given boons from their overlords.  These boons make the demons more powerful (increased strength, better spells, better items, more limbs, etc).  Some overlords are more generous than others and are not always fair (some demons deserve greater rewards than others anyway), so the GM can distribute boons however she sees fit.
tOverlords are responsible for reclaiming the souls of defeated demons and giving them new forms.  If a demon dies and there is no overlord present to reclaim its soul, the soul is most likely banished to the underworld (effectively gone forever).  The demons pretty much become mortals when their Overlord is gone!  An exception to this rule is if the demons have found some ulterior way to be reincarnated (Powerful wizards that have bound the souls of the demons to the world, artifacts which revive the demon, etc).  Another problem with having no overlord is that they cannot give boons to the demons.  The demons then must find other ways to gain power.
It is the players decision whether they want to take upon themselves the overlord's duty to corrupt the world or whether the demons are free to roam the world as they choose and pursue their own ambitions outside of the underworld.  If they succeed at satisfactorily ruining the world, they return to the underworld with high honors.  The fiends recognize the demons' worth and may even promote them to overlords and send them off to corrupt new worlds.  If the demons choose to stay in the world...well there is always hope for godhood...or redemption...at the very least it should be a lot of fun.

Demonic hierarchy.  At the top of the demonic hierarchy stand the fiends.  Well, that is of course if you disbelieve in the existence of The Devil.  No one really knows if The Devil exists.  Some think that it disguises itself as a fiend but secretly controls the workings of the underworld.  If the devil exists, it is at the top (or bottom?).  It is a greater god.  But its existence is just speculation.  Mostly the fiends stand at the top and they are the most powerful of all demonkind.  They are as powerful as lesser gods, though they cannot create worlds.  They can cause the destruction of lesser gods through destroying their worlds.  Overlords who succeed at tainting many worlds gain the rank of fiend.  They are as close as most demons get to becoming gods.  Some claim that they are gods-a claim with perhaps a little weight to it.  At the very least, they are demigods, are very immortal, are very powerful, and rule over the rest of the underworld.  This is as high up as any sane demon can hope to get-not that most demons are sane anyway.  There have been rare occasions when demons have achieved redemption of sorts and become archangels with more power than fiends.  There have also been occasions when demons have achieved godhood, though they became lesser gods that few know of and even fewer worship.  Fiends come in all shapes and sizes because power does not always equal size, and power is what fiends have.  Although they can, fiends generally choose not to change shape either.  It seems strange that fiends choose not to shape change, this trend is probably due to each fiends' pride in their own particular style.  Each one achieved fiend-dom in different ways, they're like snowflakes-no two are alike.  No overlord, force of overlords, or force of any lesser demons can ever defeat a fiend.  On rare occasions fiends choose to lead a great army of overlords and demons against a large and very holy world to test itself and to just have a fun time.  The rules for fiends are not as clear as for overlords because fiends cannot be defeated by underlings and they tend to make sure no ambitious demons get any ideas counter to fulfilling the tainting.  No one knows what can defeat a fiend, only greater gods have banished them from their worlds.  Then again some greater gods have lost worlds to fiends.
tNext come the Overlords.  These guys were once demons who did their jobs well many times over or didn't do their jobs extremely well once and defeated their overlord and tainted the world without their overlord's presence.  Most demons decide to take the route of following orders for statistical reasons.  Of all the overlords in existence, ten got there by following orders for every one that got there through rebellion.  Though rebelling and succeeding is a much faster method because you only have to do it once.  A demon who follows orders all the time must take part in ten world taintings-and patience was never a strong suit for demons.  Overlords are in charge of commanding demons to taint worlds.  An Overlord who completes the taintings of a hundred "worlds" becomes a fiend.  Taintings of worlds are done through tainting rituals which are extremely difficult endeavors and are only accomplished when the overlord's demons have succeeded in causing a certain level of malevolence.  For instance, the conditions for one particular world to be considered tainted might include the slaughter of 1 million inhabitance, causing 2 million acts of infidelity and/or betrayal, destroying 500,000 buildings, stealing an equivalent of 20 billion dollars worth of whatever the world considers valuable at the time, and castrating 10 albino 13-year-old males.  Then after all that is completed, a ritual must be done, oh lets say  the most honorable and respected individual must be forced/coerced/tricked into sacrificing his own family due to a specific law created by the current reigning kingdom.  Needless to say this would take a long time to accomplish, but perhaps this world has resisted five other taintings and would count as five "worlds" towards becoming a fiend.  Overlords are weaklings compared to fiends but bulwarks of power compared to demons.  It is very difficult for demons to defeat overlords.  Such a feat can only occur outside of the underworld, and only the strongest, most clever, and knowledgeable demons succeed.  How does a demon go about defeating an overlord?  No overlord will tell, only a tenth of them know anyway, no fiend cares enough to tell, and yet it happens.  Also, even mortals can defeat overlords, it is much more difficult than defeating a demon to be sure, but there have been cases when legendary mortals rose to the challenge, learned and executed the process of overlord slaying.  Overlords are mostly just pumped up versions of the seven basic demonic forms listed above, with a few exceptions.  1.  In cases where a demon defeats its own overlord in the form of something other than the basic seven, then completes the tainting of a world, it is granted overlord-dom in that form.  The only real difference between overlords and demons is that overlords are granted specific powers by fiends.  An overlord's soul is tied to its form.  It cannot change its form like fiends or demons (the fiends put on this restriction for some reason).  2.  Overlords cannot be defeated by demons when in the underworld.  3.  Overlords can grant boons, making other demons more powerful, but only when not in the underworld.  They cannot make demons more powerful than themselves however.  4.  When in a world, overlords can reclaim the souls of fallen demons preventing them from returning to the underworld.  The souls go to a special spawning pool where the demon's soul enters and emerges as one of the seven forms.  5.  The overlord knows the entire layout of its lair and may choose whether to tell its demons about its hidden rooms or not.  6.  The overlord commands legions of lesser demons.
tLower than the overlords are the demons.  Just plain old demons.  These are what the player characters begin play as.  Demons can pretty much become as powerful as overlords during their existences outside the underworld-given enough time, of course.  There are always a few things that an overlord can do that a demon cannot (see overlord).
tLast and least are the lesser demons.  These demons tend to be smaller, more frail, and dumber than other demons.  Lesser demons also tend not to have identities or names distinguishing them from others of there kind.  These are the grunts, shock troopers, fodder, slave labor, and foot stools of all other demons.  They come in many forms and cannot change their forms:  hellhounds, imps, shamblers, Zerglings from Starcraft, etc.


*[tiki-download_file.php?fileId=2|Fel Sample Character.doc (25.60 Kb)]
