Stats:

Hit Points (HP):  Current/Max, If current HP becomes &lt;= 0, then character dies.  HP is regained over time at the rate of 1HP per minute outside of combat, and can be recovered with the aid of healing magic and various items.  HP Max for all characters begins at 100.

Wound Limit (WL):  Serves a number of purposes.  When HP becomes &lt;= WL, the character is considered wounded.  All combatants can see when a character is wounded.  Wounded characters generally become tougher to kill and some become much stronger, but begin taking damage if they continue acting (1 HP per action taken).  The WL is generally a fourth (1/4) of the character's max HP, but can be altered.

Consciousness Limit (CL):  People often fall unconscious before dying.  The CL is usually a tenth (1/10) of the character's maximum HP.  An unconscious character cannot take action and cannot defend herself.

Adrenaline Limit (AL):  Some characters gain power when they become hurt in combat.  Effectively, the character begins pumping more adrenaline and other fun self-made enhancement drugs.  This is to increase survivability.  Characters within the AL fight all out in order to survive.  The AL is usually half (1/2) of the character's max HP, but can be altered.

Magic Points (MP):  Current/Max.  MP is expended with the casting of spells.  A character with 0MP is unable to cast or aid in the casting of magic.  MP can be regained over time at the rate of 1MP per minute outside of combat.  It can also be restored with the aid of magic and items.  MP Max begins at 50 for each character.

Drain Limit (DL):  When a character reaches a fourth (1/4) of their MP, they become drained.  Drain is visibly noticed by enemy and ally alike.  It shows that a character's capacity to use further magic is almost up.  It gives allies a sense of when they should be helping their drained ally.  Certain effects take place when a character is drained.  For instance, a MP regeneration spell might take effect on a drained character to help that character recover MP quickly.

Combat Affinity (CA):  A number that represents how well a character fights and knows about combat.  Higher CA allows for a greater chance to hit, higher damage dealt, better defense against attacks, and greater knowledge of what an enemy will attempt.  For each combat round, a player distributes his CA into Offense and Defense.  The player must also give a specific description of what he intends to do.  For instance, a character with a 10 in CA might put 7 into Defense and 3 into Offense.  These numbers are added respectively to each stat.  The player would then say something like, &quot;I'm holding my ground and guarding my friends, so if any enemies approach I'll attack one of them.&quot;  Additionally, characters with higher CAs will be able to know what other characters with lower CAs will do during their turn, to an extent.  Higher CA also allows characters to have more say in how much damage they wish to do to a struck enemy as well as what additional effects the attack had in combat such as knocking an enemy over, knocking him back, stunning him, pinning, etc.  A character with higher CA over his opponent will be more likely to have these effects occur.  An attacking character may wish to attempt multiple attacks or defensive actions.  For each additional action subtract five from the character's Combat Affinity for this round before distributing it to Offense or Defense.  A character can also decide to focus on a particular enemy to help determine what that enemy will do next.  Focusing takes an entire combat round and doubles the character's CA against that enemy for the next round.  Base CA is 1 for each character. Some equipment, spells, and other effects will give a straight bonus to CA (a magical weapon that adds 1 to CA for example).

Offense (O):  A number representing how good a character is at pulling off attacks against others in combat.  CA can be used to temporarily increase this stat.  During a combat round, each character chooses what they want to do.  The success of an attack is determined by finding the difference in Offense and Defense scores of the combatants after opposing rolls are made.  The attacker chooses a die type (d4, d6, d8, d10, d12) and both attacker and defender roll it, adding to their respective scores.  If the attacker's Offense score is higher, the attack succeeds to varying degrees depending on how much higher the difference is.  If the Defender's defense is higher, the attack fails to a certain extent.  If the Defense score turns out much higher, then the defender may be granted an additional swift action (ex. a counter attack).  Based off of the difference between the two scores, the CAs of each character, the weapon types, the magical bonuses, the die type used, the specifics of what each character tried to do, etc., the GM makes a judgment and determines the results of the combat round.  The GM will determine damage and other misc. events resulting from the round of combat.  Some equipment, spells, and other effects will give a straight bonus to Offense (A magical weapon that adds 1 to offense for example).  Base Offense is 0 for each character.
Off + die type result = Attack Combat Score (ACS).

Defense (D):  A number representing how good a character is at fending off attacks from others in combat.  Double, triple, etc. teaming will result in penalties to the defender's Defense score unless she is supported by flanking friends.  Also, if a defender has flanking friends, then an outnumbered attacker receives penalties to her Offense.  The number of the penalty is determined by a number of factors, such as Combat Affinity, what each character is doing specifically, the die type used by the attackers, etc.  Then, the GM chooses a fitting die type and rolls one die of that type for each additional outnumbering character.  The result is subtracted from the outnumbered character's relevant score before Combat Rolls are made.  A defender will roll his Defense score separately for each attacker.  A defender may also choose to concentrate his Defense score against a single attacker.  This means that the other two attackers will be more likely to succeed, but the defender has a better chance to shrug off an attack against the first attacker.  Base Defense is 0 for each character.
Def + die type result = Defense Combat Score (DCS).

Combat Roll Result (CRR):  ACS -- DCS = CRR.  If CRR is positive, the attack succeeds.  Damage and effects depend on how positive the value is.  If CRR is zero or negative, the attack fails and additional effects occur depending on how negative the value is.

Resistances (R):  Characters with damage resistances take reduced damage from corresponding damage types.  Characters with status resistances are affected less often, and with reduced effect, by corresponding status effects.  A character with a fluid armor spell cast on her will probably resist (to an extent) bludgeoning damage, fire damage, and corrosive damage, but take increased electrical.  A mind shielded character will resist mental status effects and mind reading.  There are 6 types of damage:  Piercing, Bludgeoning, Slashing, Fiery (burning, heat, laser), Electrical (lightning, energy surges), and Corrosive (Acid, other flesh soluble fluids, flesh eating enzymes).  Note:  There is no distinction between magical and non-magical damages.  There are no Cold, Sonic, Force, Gravitic, Positive, Negative, or Bullshit energy damages.  An ice bolt would do piercing or bludgeoning damage.  Other cold effects wouldn't do damage, but would create a status effect like slowing or exhaustion.  Prolonged exposure would cause death of course, but I believe the effect to be unrelated to HP, and the GM will make a judgment call (If you heat up after awhile you should be fine).  So for game play purposes consider the effects of anything "cold" (or other effects yet undefined such as poison and disease) to be determined by the GM for each situation.  Armor will give some direct reduction and some % reduction to damage types, as long as the character was struck in the armor (depends on actions taken and combat results).  Assuming someone is struck in the armor, it will reduce the damage taken by a percentage, then reduce the new damage by a number.  For instance leather armor might have 1/20% damage reduction for bludgeoning damage.  This means that if a character takes a hit in the armor for 10 bludgeoning damage, we apply the leather armor damage reduction (10*80%) - 1 = 7.  The character takes 7 damage instead of 10.  Full Power Armor will give substantially greater resistances to damage, percent and direct.  Armor itself will not have HP, but the GM will decide when an effect ruins/weakens the armor.  Full submersion in a strong acid or lava will destroy your leather armor.  If your wooden shield is repeatedly pummeled, it may split or shatter eventually.

Experience, Boons and Rewards:  Surviving battles, solving puzzles, and finding clever solutions to problems improves characters.  In addition to all the cool loot characters acquire on their journeys, they become stronger, wiser, and more capable.  The GM will grant rewards to characters that do exceptionally well.  These rewards vary from character to character and could be a new spell rank, a bonus to Combat Affinity, a bonus to HP, etc.  Also, some truly heroic actions may catch the eye of one of the gods (or other powerful patrons) and the character/s who perform these actions will be granted boons. Do what the gods like, and they will reward you.  After sessions, players will usually receive Character Points (see Character Points below).

Combat System:  Magic comes in all shapes and sizes.  Single cast, area of effect, support, healing, etc.  However, the Kihrsutotahn system supports combined actions.  A certain spell may require 2, 3, or 100 people to cast.  A wizard can make a sword flaming as the warrior strikes with it.  It is encouraged that players take advantage of combined actions as much as possible.  This is because it promotes teamwork within the group, enhances the relationships of the characters, and is just a generally awesome concept that doesn't work in other roleplaying formats due to their individual character turn-based combat system.  The KihrSutoTahn system is a simultaneous-round system where all combatants decide what they want to do and then act at once.  This can produce some strange results that the GM should be prepared to make rulings on.  The rules are purposefully made to be flexible and promote cinematic combat rather than exact &quot;by-the-numbers&quot; combat.  The system has yet to be tested, and modifications may be made during play to balance it (i.e. if someone finds a way to break the system by gaining an ability to overcome every challenge).

Equipment and Damage:  Yes larger weapons generally cause more damage than smaller ones.  However, a skilled fighter will do more damage with a knife, than an inexperienced soldier with a polearm (most of the time).  Also, someone stabbed in the heart will take more damage than someone who received a cut on their arm.  Thus damage is highly variable and the amount of damage done will rely less on the weapon wielded and more on the skill of the character and the success of the die roll.  If a CRR result is 10, you better believe that defender is going to have some serious HP loss regardless of the weapon used.  Also, if a CRR is just 1 the defender will still be hurt (unless she has good armor), but not by much even if the attacker was swinging a huge muscle propelled two-handed sword.  However, if a CRR is 5 with a two-handed sword it would do more damage than a CRR of 5 with a knife.  Armor will increase defense skill and resistance to damage.  Ex: Leather Armor would give +1 to Defense and some damage resistances.  The damage resistance would only take effect if the character was struck in the armor, but the Defense bonus would exist in most cases since a character would hopefully try to be hit in these places over non-protected places.  The non-protected places are generally more difficult to hit anyway.  Just to give players a general idea of how much damage they would be doing with a combat attack, I have listed a few very basic examples of damage determined by weapon and combat result. 
-Dagger: CRR 1 = 10 damage, CRR 2 = 12, 3 = 14, 4 = 16, 5 = 18, 6 = 20, 7 = 22, 8 = 24, 9 = 26, 10 = 28, etc.
-Long Sword: CRR 1 = 11 damage, CRR 2 = 14, 3 = 17, 4 =20, 5 = 23, 6 = 26, 7 = 29, 8 = 32, 9 = 35, 10 = 38, etc.
-Two-Hand Sword: CRR 1 = 12 damage, CRR 2 = 16, 3 = 20, 4 = 24, 5 = 28, 6 = 32, 7 = 36, 8 = 40, 9 = 44, 10 = 48, etc.
 Keep in mind these values do not take into account damage reduction, CA, traits, difficulties to use due to the size, nor additional effects caused by having a high CRR result.  Some weapons will also incur an O penalty due to the difficulty of using them, so you may not want to choose that Two-Handed sword if you're an inexperienced fighter.  These penalties can be reduced with traits (Two-Handed weapons specialization, for example).  Dagger: O penalty (OP) = 0.  Long Sword: OP = -1.  Two-Hand Sword: OP = -2.  Also, daggers do piercing damage, Long Swords piercing or slashing, Two-Hand Swords slashing.  You can make a dagger do slashing and a T-H Sword do bludgeoning damage, but there will be penalties (something like -1 O and 75% of the damage).

Attacking Objects:  Being able to throw a knife and hit a barn from 5 feet away is far easier than throwing the knife at a rope holding up a chandelier.  In these cases, the GM will assign an appropriate Defense value for the object, as well as an appropriate die type for the attacker to roll, based on what the character is trying to do to it, and how difficult it seems.  Depending on the outcome of the player's attack roll, the character might just succeed at splitting the rope holding up the chandelier (Defense 15 or so).  Objects do not make opposed rolls, only their Defense value is taken into account.  If a character tries to sunder (break or destroy) an object, the object will also be given an HP value and damage reductions for itself.  Trying to slash through a thick oak door with an axe will probably be harder and take longer than ramming it until the lock breaks.

Traits:  Instead of having ability scores, skills, feats, and special abilities, characters just have traits.  Traits define a character's general mundane proficiencies and skills.  A character with Strength1 will be stronger than other characters and will gain bonuses when performing actions that require strength to accomplish (dragging an unconscious 400 lb. demonic hound up a beach).  A character with Strength5 will perform even better.  There is no set list for traits.  Instead players are encouraged to create their own traits to help define their character more and then the actual bonuses the trait gives should be discussed with the GM for balancing issues.  Traits can be increased over time through experience, training, teaching, magic, godly affinity, and boons.

Powers:  Powers are exceptional abilities (usually but not always magical) that a character can harness.  Powers, like traits, are listed in general terms and do not denote a singular effect.  A character with the spell power Fire1 can harness fire effects in various limited ways (ex. start a campfire, set a piece of cloth on fire, heat up some food).  A character with Fire2 can use the same fire magic to do more damage, same damage at a distance (ex. to strike an enemy with fire), enhance an object or person with fire, or create a small area of effect fire.  A character with Fire5 will harness stronger and more controlled fire magic overall.  Newly created powers will be discussed with the GM for balancing issues.  Each rank of a power can be used for increased damage, range, duration, potency, effectiveness, additional targets, reducing resistance, increasing the difficulty of counterspelling and more (ask GM).  Generally, Power attacks automatically hit, but always in the most resistant area.  For targeted Power attacks (hitting someone in the head, groin, eye), you would have to devote extra ranks depending on the size/awkwardness of actually hitting that area.  Alternatively, instead of using extra ranks for targeting, you could instead opt to make an attack, in which case you would have to make an opposed attack roll.  It is also sometimes impossible hit a certain area (if a character had a magical shield surrounding his head) in which case an attack directed against that area would hit the obstruction.  For enhanced weapons, the damage could do more or less depending on how well the attack succeeds.  Values change depending on the power as well (range for a Fire attack is different than range for teleportation).  Powers can be gained and increased over time through experience, training, teaching, magic, godly affinity, and boons.  MP costs for powers scales as follows: Rank1: 5MP, Rank2: 11MP, Rank3: 18MP, Rank4: 26MP, Rank5: 35MP, Rank6: 45MP etc.  Note: One person making a Rank6 effect costs 45MP for that person.  Three people contributing to make the same Rank6 effect costs less (1, 1, 4 = 36MP or 2, 2, 2 = 33MP).  Six people doing the effect costs 30.  This means that it is more MP-efficient to have multiple people create an effect.  Damage for most spells, for those who are curious, will scale the same way as the MP.  Characters can also channel MP to aid an effect at a 2 for 1 rate even if they do not have ranks in the same effect (I cast Fire1 using 4MP, a friend can contribute 2 MP so that the effect goes off).  This does not increase the strength of the effect.  Counterspelling is possible.  You must declare that you are preparing to counter spells in advance and then spend MP equal to or higher than the spell as it is cast, if you do so, the spell is countered and the person casting the spell loses the MP.  If multiple people are casting a spell, you can decide to disrupt one of the casters, thus weakening the overall effect of the spell.  The individual who was disrupted does not use her ranks for the spell.  You can gage how many ranks of a spell are being cast with the spell affinity trait (to know for certain you need as many ranks as the spell, but you can gage with lesser ranks).  Character's can also dispel pre-existing effects much the same as if counterspelling.

Non-Combat Actions:  For the most part, if what the character is trying to do is easy, it is done.  If it is impossible, it doesn't work.  If a character tries to pick a lock but doesn't have a rank in the lock picking trait or an unlocking spell , she can't.  In cases where a lock is quite simple and just messing around with it may result in success, the GM could allow a 50% chance roll for an untrained person and the lock might break-it really depends on the type of lock and the situation.  A person with the lock picking trait would be able to open most simple locks without effort.  More complex locks would require more ranks and special tools.  A character without the jump trait can jump 2' up and 5' forward easily.  Attempting to jump across an 8' wide pit without any ranks in the jump trait is dangerous (50% chance success).  A few ranks in the jump trait, and you just make it across.  Each scenario is different.  It is encouraged that people try to solve problems without taking chances.  Most of the time, there will be solutions to challenges that does not involve chance, it might just take awhile to find those solutions. 

Character Points (CP):  Characters start out with 20 character points to spend on their characters in the following ways: 1 CP for 10 HP (up to 50 HP starting off), 10 MP (up to 50MP starting off),  1 Trait rank (up to rank 5 in any individual Trait starting off), 1 Power (up to rank 5 in any individual Power starting off), 10% damage type resistance (up to 50% in any individual DR starting off), 25% status effect resistance (up to 50% starting off, with exceptions).  3 CP for 1 Combat Affinity (up to 4 CA starting off).  After each session, characters may gain a certain number of CP depending on how successful the GM thinks the players were at accomplishing their goals.

