-=Magic Notes=-

Story:  The world is young and filled with magic and vitality.  Three gods Kihr the Survivor, Suto the Keeper, and Tahn the Creator made it and named it Kirhsutotahn.  They shape the world as they desire.  After 300 years and several generations, the people of the world have grown numerous.  With the enlarging population and expansion of civilization the vices have grown numerous.  Ambition, jealousy, hatred, thievery, etc. have taken root and small pitched battles are waged across the world.  However, there are no large scale battles and no warlords seeking rulership over all, the gods make sure of that.  But they do not act to stem the smaller conflicts, to bring lasting peace to their world.  None of the Parentless, the first created by the gods, questions the gods' motives.  However, the newer and ever increasingly rebellious generations grow suspicious and wonder why their benevolent gods do not intervene.  Surely there is more going on than meets the eye.  The town of Rivervalley is one of these places plagued with bandits. To protect the town, the counsel of elders has petitioned would-be adventurers to form Kihrsets, small parties of skilled travelers banded together with common interests, to capture or eliminate the bandits.

Blessings:  Each god has bestowed a distinct blessing upon all of the people.  Kihr gave the people the blessing of wholeness.  In battle, no one loses important parts of their bodies.  A strike that would normally sever a limb would still hurt, but the limb would remain in tact and function.  A true stab to the heart does not prevent the heart from beating.  This means that fighters remain whole and at top fighting condition until they are brought unconscious by becoming overwhelmed (HP).  Suto gave the people the blessing of magic.  Every individual has the capacity to use powerful magic for any purpose.  All that is needed is training, experience, and the proper knowledge of how each spell works.  However, the capacity to use magic is not limitless and only those with the strongest wills can control their powers effectively (MP).  Tahn gave the people the blessing of longevity.  Instead of only living to a mere 100 years at most, the people now live longer and more productive lives.  A normal human now has the capacity to live 500 years before dying and has an extended period of time with which to bear offspring.  In fact, with just the third generation, the population of Kihrsutotahn is reaching the limits of comfortable living.  This has caused many people to see each individual with less importance and is partially responsible for the increase in villainous behavior.

Wound Limit Info- During most battles, it is understood that neither side gains from death, so when a character reaches wounded status, as long as that character stays out of the rest of the combat and takes no actions, they should not be attacked further.  Most battles end with one side having all or most of their Kihrset wounded and surrendering.  Even if a character who has reached the Wound Limit is healed above the limit, it is still expected that the character stay out of the rest of the combat.  The other Kihrset is considered the victor of the engagement, and both sides negotiate terms of surrender.  However, some Kihrsets (especially certain bandits) do not honor this rule of engagement and fight to the death or until one side flees.  If a character kills another, they gain notoriety noticeable by others in the form of an aura that can be sensed by means other than the normal 5.  The potency of the aura increases with more kills regardless of morality.  A person who kills justly, even in self defense or accidentally, will acquire the same strength of aura as a person who has killed unjustly.

Godly affinities:  Affinities represent how much of a bond the character has to each god.  A higher affinity score increases the amount of powers and traits a character can have and use.  Characters begin with 1 point to spend on a godly affinity.

Kihr affinity:  Each point of Kihr affinity grants 10 HP, an extra point of Combat Affinity, 1 power point, and 1 trait point to spend on a physical trait.  The god also reacts more favorably than normal towards the character.

Suto affinity:  Each point of Suto affinity grants 20 MP, 3 power points, and 1 trait point to spend on a non-physical.  The god also reacts more favorably than normal towards the character.

Tahn affinity:  Each point of Tahn affinity gives 20 HP, 2 power points, and 2 trait points.  The god also reacts more favorably than normal towards the character.

Important locations:
Rivervalley-Home town where the characters meet.  True to its name, Rivervalley rests along the bank of a river in the middle of a valley. Fishing is a common hobby and past time.  The climate is temperate and most of the trees are coniferous.  Rivervalley is a waypoint town, full of travelers heading between Tahnia and Luhtza Port and is therefore frequently targeted by bandits and raiders.

Tahnia-Bustling city named after Tahn the Creator.  Rich in industry, agriculture, and commerce.  Surrounding lands are forests, hills, farmland, orchards, rivers and lakes.  Temperate to warm climate.  Mostly contains deciduous trees.  Tahnia is stock full of resources, so merchants from all over the world come and barter for goods.

Luhtza Port-Named after the Parentless Luhtza-most famous of Suto's followers.  Luhtza is a great explorer, prospector, and sailor.  He discovered many lands on Kihrsutotahn.  He created Luhtza Port at the bidding of Suto herself.  Traveling by ship is the fastest means of mundane transportation to distant parts of the world, and Luhtza Port is the largest port city.  It is also the primary way point to and from the island city of Sutoya.

Sutoya-Named after Suto the Keeper.  Sutoya is an island and the city ranging from below the sea in magically formed underwater habitats to high in the mountains of that island.  It is home to explorers, teachers, philosophers, researchers, and The Great Library.  People come to Sutoya for schooling and to study magics and technologies.

Great Library-Contains all known magical spells, the history of the world, and just about anything there is worth knowing.  It is also theorized by a small number of paranoid scholars that much knowledge is hidden deep within and purposefully kept away from the public eye.

Kihria-Not a city, but the vast land home to a collective of numerous tribes.  Kihria houses all terrain types and climates ranging from freezing arctic lands to burning deserts to rainy jungles and swamps.  There are also many seas and islands scattered around the land included in the region.  Kihrians enjoy competition and hold many tournaments to honor the greatest warriors and athletes.  Many Kihrians live spartan life styles while others live as nomads never staying too long in a single place.

Others-There are other towns and villages of lesser importance scattered here and there that may come up from time to time.

Families and ?sets:  The importance of familial ties and blood relations are watered down on Kihrsutotahn.  This is due to the fact that one person may have a fairly large number of offspring and siblings because of the extended lifespan granted by Tahn.  Instead, people group together (hopefully with others whose company they enjoy) to form &quot;?sets&quot; (Kihrsets, Sutosets, Tahnsets).  The ?set then becomes a character's new family, and it is
expected that each member fulfills their duties to the best of their ability.  Otherwise the entire ?set will not function well.  Character's in ?sets quickly become as emotionally attached to each other as families are in real life.  Partially due to being in the same situation, partially due to the magical bonds that form between each member.  Both positive and negative attachments occur, so this special bond is not necessarily a good thing.  Just as siblings fight jealously over an object, so do members of ?sets.  Just as a mother would do anything to protect her child, so too would members of ?sets.  It is highly recommended that the players roleplay this interaction well and have their character form specific feelings for each of the other characters.  Incest is a common occurrence, but due to Kihr's blessing, no offspring suffer genetically.  Thus the taboo on incest is minor compared to our society.  Strangely enough, the Parentless seem overly disturbed by it.  No one understands why and the Parentless feel this way and it is one of the many secrets they keep to themselves.

Kihrsets:  A small band of people who work together for travel, adventure, battle, mutual survival.  Merchants, travelers, town guards, soldiers, hunters, and bandits generally make up Kihrsets.

Sutosets:  A band of people who work together in pursuit of knowledge.  Scientists, librarians, magisters, keepers of lore, spies, teachers, and students form Sutosets.

Tahnsets:  A band of people who work together to create or build.  Workers, masons, blacksmiths, leatherworkers, parents, engineers, landscapers, gardeners, and anything blue collar related form Tahnsets.

Character Creation:  Characters can be either gender and any age ranging from 20 to 300.  Full adulthood begins around the same time as in real life, but due to Tahn's Blessing the aging process slows drastically and people stay in the "prime of their life" for at least 2 full centuries.  The world is only 300 years old, so characters cannot be older than that.  Characters cannot be Parentless.  Characters can know each other previously or have just met.  When thinking about what kinds of spells and traits you want, for the most part you'll have to come up with what you want your character to do and I'll tell you what my rulings are on those abilities.  This portion is open-ended, just keep in mind I won't allow anything too ridiculously powerful for characters to start with (a death spell for example).  There is no standard unit of money.  People trade by bartering needed goods or services.  Characters will start off with weapons, armor, and other equipment that makes sense for their character to have.  If you are a soldier from Tahnia that was escorting some merchants to Rivervalley, then you probably have at least some form of melee weapon and basic leather armor.  Remember you start with 1 Godly Affinity Point.  If you have further questions, just ask.

*[tiki-download_file.php?fileId=5|KST Sample Character.doc (25.60 Kb)]
