-=Technology Notes=-

Background:  You are on the world of Fresia, a world in turmoil, a dying world.  There are 3 factions-The followers of Orut, which you are counted amongst, The followers of Etla, and the demons.  Orut and Etla are gods of this world while a powerful demon overlord named Fel Zapones rules over the demons.  Both of the other two factions are your enemies and both are stronger than you.  The demons appear to seek only power, chaos, and destruction while Etla seeks what she believes to be justice, though the situation is much more complicated than she would have you believe.  Their numbers are nearly limitless.  The demons seem to be able to bring reinforcements from some other world, and Etla's followers return from the dead when they are slain.  All is not lost though.  They are both enemies of each other as well, and your faction is strong enough that if one attacks, they will be weakened too much and be slaughtered by the other.  This balance of power has been kept for 300 years.  But resources are running low and the 3 cities that remain will soon be no longer able to power their magic nullifying shields, Meklars, or other important devices like the river purifiers and farming equipment.  But there is still a hope...

History:  Orut and Etla were not always gods, in fact they were once friends and even lovers.  They were part of a team, a group of champions of the old gods.  The other members of the team were Kihr, Suto, and Tahn.  They were called the Etlaset in the tradition of the time because Etla was their leader.  The gods chose her because they believed she had what they saw as the best traits for leadership-she strongly believed in the values of justice, honor, and loyalty.  Orut was a gifted scientist and inventor of many fascinating non-magical devices.  Kihr was a passionate warrior who believed in survival over all else.  Tahn, Kihr's little brother, was a renowned architect, artist, singer, poet, and gifted wizard.  Suto was perhaps the greatest archmage of the time and sought to learn everything she could.  The old gods believed this group to be strong enough to banish the demons once and for all.  They sent them to do just that.  However, Fel was prepared.  When the party arrived Fel used one of his most powerful spells to show the party a vision of the possible future if they fought.  It showed the party emerging victorious!  Though the victory would necessarily cost them their lives.  Furthermore, he showed the thoughts of the old gods:  They knew beforehand that this sacrifice would have to be made and willingly sent the Etlaset off to do it without even telling them it had to be done.  This information unsettled the members of the Etlaset and completely enraged Kihr.  Etla insisted they fight on anyway for honor, loyalty, and the greater good.  Kihr directly opposed this course of action claiming that the sacrifice need not be made.  Suto and Orut suggested that there could be alternate ways to defeat the Overlord other than sacrificing themselves, but in order to find such a way they would have to disobey the gods.  Kihr instantly supported this idea and Tahn, with trepidation, supported the others.  Etla insisted that they stop with this foolishness-the gods would kill them all anyway if the Etlaset did not do as they bid.  Fel then showed the Etlaset a page from Lorekeeper, The book of knowledge.  The book held within it instructions on how to kill gods, what's more, how to claim the power of those gods for themselves!  Kihr quickly claimed that the Etlaset should kill the gods for sending them to their deaths.  No god that would send its followers unknowingly to their deaths deserved godhood.  Suto claimed this would be the best course of action-It would give them time to find a way to defeat Fel without dying.  Only Etla continued to side with the gods, stubbornly loyal until the end.  After further failed attempts to convince the others to stay with her she decided that her only option remaining was to subdue the others for treason and bring them before the gods for judgment.  The others easily defeated her though did not kill her because both Kihr and Orut still loved her and thought they could make her understand afterward.  They tied her up and proceeded to go fight and barely manage to slay the gods.  During the process, Kihr, Orut, Suto, and Tahn all acquired the divine power and were elevated to godhood.  The victory was not entirely a success however, because during the battle the gods ripped a few key pages from Lorekeeper and found useful information on how  to transfer some of their power to Etla as they were dying.  They gave their loyal champion one final task-to exact vengeance and kill the others.  Etla, having achieved godhood herself began to attack the others.  She harried them for some time and the outcome seemed unclear.  The others could not convince Etla to go back on her oath.  Orut, fearing that the others would end up killing Etla, something he very much did not want to happen out of his love for her, decided to join her side.  Etla only promised to spare his life until after the others were brought down, justice had to be done, but that there might be some chance that they would meet up in the afterlife, and in that event Etla might consider forgiving him.  The balance shifted and it seemed Etla would win.  Orut then had another change of heart because he didn't want to see his friends killed.  He developed a new unprecedented device which would send people to a different world via a portal.  The power needed for this device was monumental and thus the device could only be used once.  Orut arranged for the others to acquire the device and use it to escape Etla's wrath.  He hoped that Etla would not realize the betrayal thinking Orut had crafted a weapon to be used against the others and that the others would just manage to steal it and alter its function in order to escape.  Etla wasn't fooled.  She immediately started attacking Orut, but then realized that taking him down would leave her weakened for an attack by Fel.  She backed off.  Her pursuit of justice would have to wait for the status quo to change.  The stalemate has lasted for 300 years.

More on Dying Gods:  When a god dies its divine power is lost unless certain procedures are conducted to absorb, store, and transfer that power to another.  Orut has not told any of his followers this procedure to prevent others attempting to make the same mistake he did.  When a god is dead, its creations deteriorate, its cities become ruins, its people either join another god or fade away over time.  Though the above makes it sound as if the battle between Etla and the other new gods was just between them and went quickly, in actuality the battles took much longer with many followers of the old gods joining their favorite new ones and fighting with them.  Many people died in this world war and it is worth noting that about a hundred or so made it through the portal with Kihr, Suto, and Tahn during the brief period of time that it was open.

Orut's Technology:  There was quite a bit of technology around with the old gods and Orut didn't invent much while he was mortal (compared to when he became a god), he mostly tinkered and improved upon what he had.  Using his newfound divinity, his new mystical wrench "Twink", help from some new followers, and the availability of some hefty exhaustible sources of energy, all allowed Orut to create the portal to another world.  One would think that a god of Technology and Progress would be able to make Nuclear weapons or aircraft and pretty much win in a war, but Orut has been too distracted just trying to keep his cities functioning and defensible to have the time necessary to pursue any of these plans.  Many rare raw materials are needed which can only be found in places too far away and dangerous to mine.  Keep in mind that newly created gods still only have the intelligence they had as a mortal, and invention takes time.  One necessary and unique component for the portal is now within Tahn's possession.  Vast amounts of rare materials were also consumed in order to open the portal that cannot be as easily accessed when you have enemies nipping at your heels.  Thus, any attempts to remake it have proven fruitless.  Though alternate ways to create and power the portal have been attempted, there has been no way to replicate the effect.  The portal's structure remains in Hope (one of Orut's 3 cities, the others are named Mercy and Redemption [much to Etla's annoyance]).  The shield that prevents magic is actually a series of localized shields overlapping each other formed by "Storm Rods".  A number Storm Rods, at least 4, when spaced roughly 20ft.  to 30ft. apart from each other, form a small spherical field around each point (10 ft.) and another similar but larger field around the entire area within the shape formed by the points (if you have 4 rods creating a sort of square, the entire 3-dimensional area within that square will be shielded).  The field disperses the magical energy rendering any effects negligible.  It also instantly drains the MP of those within it as well as canceling any divinely sustained magical effects (Etla's power to bound people to unlife for example).  Storm Rods are made with rare crystals (Crystal).  Crystals are then "turned on" by electrifying them.  The reaction between the electricity and Crystal is what creates the field, but Crystal is used up over time.  The Orutans are running out of Crystal faster than it can be found and created (Orut can use Twink to turn ordinary rocks into Crystal but not fast enough to replace the losses of all of the cities over time).

Energy:  Many Orutans have and use Energy instead of MP.  For the purposes of this game, Energy is essentially the same as MP except that it is not gained over time ordinarily, is more limited in its usage, but is usually much easier to acquire from outside sources.  Mechanics can create generators to produce Energy (or rather convert Energy into a usable/storable form).  There are multiple kinds of generators-Ones that convert MP into energy, ones that use fossil fuels, ones that can use anything flammable, and ones that work slowly over time that don't consume anything (think windmills or solar collectors).  Most Orutans still use MP, the ones who are not Meklars, but they have to go to a specific area of the city, near the center and heavily guarded, where the shielding from Storm Rods is purposefully left down.  Then they need to consume MP recovering resources.  Alternatively, they can leave the city, but that is not recommended for the average Orutan.

Orut's Blessing:  All gods are able to bestow a certain blessing upon all of their followers which gives them unique powers.  Only one blessing may be active at one time, and Orut had been changing his blessing over time.  Soon Orut's 3 cities will run out of Crystal, so Orut has given his people the ability to use magic in hopes that this will allow them to range further from the cities, and faster, in order to search for resources and hopefully keep his cities running long enough for someone to come up with a workable plan.

Characters:  
Godly affinities:  Affinities represent how much of a bond the character has to each god.  A higher affinity score increases the amount of powers and traits a character can have and use.

Orut affinity:  All Orutans start off with 1 godly affinity point for Orut.  Each point of Orut affinity grants 10 MP/Energy, 1 power point, and 3 trait points to spend on non-physical traits.  The god also reacts more favorably than normal towards the character.

These are some character archetypes for the Orutans that players should look over for ideas on what they want their character to be/do.  These are not "classes" but just general possibilities from which to make interesting characters.  

Alchemist-Makes and uses drugs and potions in order to enhance physical performance, resilience, and heal wounds and illnesses quickly.  Also can create gunpowder for guns and bombs.  Can use their magic to convert one type of material into another.
Mechanic-Makes all sorts of gadgets and uses guns in combat.  Sometimes rides in vehicles.  Creates generators to produce Energy to aid Cyborgs and Meklars.  Can carry Storm Rods and Crystal to set up magic nullifying fields.
Cyborg-Technologically enhanced human.  Has robotics for some body parts that enhance strength and skill.  May require energy to power certain parts.  You could even have both Energy and MP.
Meklar-A person encased in a Mech for the rest of his life (Meklars from MOO, Tetujin from 7th Saga).  Life expectancy increased with a decrease in necessity for food and sleep.  Instead of having MP, Meklars have Energy (50 to start with).  Meklars lose Energy at a rate of 1 point per hour in order to keep life support running.  If a Meklar's Energy becomes 0, they become inactive and will die in an hour.  Energy can be stored in its batteries and capacitors.  Some abilities (Lasers or Electrical Discharges) require Energy to use.  The metallic shell they reside in grants increased resistances to damage.  These resistance values will be significant, though I have not determined exactly how much (It could differ from Meklar to Meklar).  However, if people roll high enough on their combat checks, they'll still probably be able to hit you in a weak spot around the joints and cause normal damage or even cause malfunctions which would need to be repaired.  Magic users will be able to cause some serious problems if you aren't within the area of functioning Storm Rods.  Also, you need to keep an eye on your Energy, because if you use too much of it, you will quickly become unable to act in combat. 

*[tiki-download_file.php?fileId=4|Orut Sample Character.doc (25.60 Kb)]
