-=Undead Notes=-

Background:  You are on the world of Fresia, a world in turmoil, a dying world.  In fact, most of its people are undead.  That's you.  There are 3 factions- The followers of Etla which you are counted amongst, The followers of Orut, and the demons.  Etla and Orut are gods of this world while a powerful demon overlord named Fel Zapones rules over the demons.  Both of the other two factions are your enemies though you are a part of the strongest faction, at least that's what Etla believes.  You're pretty sure you're better than the Orutans, they only have 3 cities and at least 10 times fewer the people, and you and yours get back up, while their numbers don't.  You're not so sure about the demons though.  They seem to be able to bring in numbers from another world.  The demons appear to seek only power, chaos, and destruction while Orut and his criminal followers cower behind their shield falsely hoping for a miracle to save them from judgment.  They have 3 cities left and it seems they are running short on energy.  Soon that damnable shield will fall and then they will be weak enough to punish without sustaining too many losses.  Etla would send you now, but attacking while that shield is up would require too many forces, leaving her open to an attack by Fel.  Once Orut is out of the way, the demons are next and the world will finally be purified.  But it doesn't stop there.  Those other 3 villainous gods, Kihr, Suto, and Tahn escaped to another world 300 years ago through a portal created by Orut.  Etla will reactivate the portal and send her armies to execute those gods.  It must be done.  The cause is righteous!  Duty.  Honor.  Justice.  For The Old Gods!

History:  Etla and Orut were not always gods, in fact they were once friends and even lovers.  They were part of a team, a group of champions of the old gods.  The other members of the team were Kihr, Suto, and Tahn.  The 5 of them formed an adventuring band called the Etlaset in the tradition of the time because Etla was their leader.  The gods chose her because they believed she had what they saw as the best traits for leadership-she strongly believed in the values of justice, honor, and loyalty.  Orut was a gifted scientist and inventor of many fascinating non-magical devices.  Kihr was a passionate warrior who believed in survival over all else.  Tahn, Kihr's little brother, was a renowned architect, artist, singer, poet, and gifted wizard.  Suto was perhaps the greatest archmage of the time and sought to learn everything she could.  The old gods believed this group to be strong enough to banish the demons that had been plaguing the world.  They sent them to do just that.  However, Fel was prepared.  When the party arrived Fel used one of his most powerful spells to show the party a vision of the possible future in which they fight.  It showed the party emerging victorious!  Though the victory would necessarily cost them their lives.  Furthermore, he showed the thoughts of the old gods:  They knew beforehand that this sacrifice would have to be made and yet they willingly sent the Etlaset off to do it without even telling them it had to be done.  This information unsettled the members of the Etlaset and completely enraged Kihr.  Etla insisted they fight on anyway for honor, the greater good, and because it was their duty to do so.  Kihr directly opposed this course of action claiming that they were exempt from their duty since they had been acting under false pretences.  Suto and Orut suggested that there could be alternate ways to defeat the Overlord other than sacrificing themselves, but in order to find such a way they would have to disobey the gods.  Kihr instantly supported this idea and Tahn, with trepidation, supported them as well.  Etla insisted that they stop with this foolishness-the gods would kill them all anyway if the Etlaset did not do as they bid.  Fel then showed the Etlaset a page from Lorekeeper, The book of knowledge.  The book held within it instructions on how to kill gods, what's more, how to claim the power of those gods for themselves!  Kihr quickly proposed that the Etlaset should kill the gods for sending them to their deaths.  No god that would send its followers unknowingly to their deaths deserved godhood.  Suto claimed this would be the best course of action-It would give them time to find a way to defeat Fel which didn't involve dying.  Only Etla continued to side with the gods, loyal until the end.  After further failed attempts to convince the others to keep their vows with her, she decided that her only option remaining was to subdue the others for treason and bring them before the gods for judgment.  The others easily defeated her, though did not kill her because both Kihr and Orut still loved her and thought they could make her understand afterward.  They tied her up and proceeded to fight and barely manage to slay the gods.  During the process, Kihr, Orut, Suto, and Tahn all acquired the divine power and were elevated to godhood.  The victory was not entirely a success however, because during the battle the gods ripped a few key pages from Lorekeeper and found useful information on how  to transfer some of their divine power to Etla as they were dying.  As their dying wish, they gave their loyal champion one final task-to bring all the treacherous gods to justice and remove the taint of the demons from the world.  Etla, having achieved godhood herself began to attack the others.  She harried them for some time and the outcome seemed unclear.  The others could not convince Etla to go back on her oath.  Orut, fearing that the others would end up killing Etla, something he very much did not want to happen out of his love for her, decided to join her side.  Etla only promised to spare his life until after the others were brought down, justice had to be done, but that there might be some chance that they would meet up in the afterlife, and in that event Etla might consider forgiving him.  The balance shifted and it seemed Etla would succeed at defeating the other gods.  Orut then had another change of heart because he didn't want to see his friends killed.  He developed a new unprecedented device which would send people to a different world via a portal.  The power needed for this device was monumental and thus the device could only be used once with the resources he had on hand.  Orut arranged for the others to acquire the device and use it to escape Etla's wrath.  He hoped that Etla would not realize the betrayal thinking Orut had crafted a weapon to be used against the others and that the others would just manage to steal it and alter its function in order to escape.  Etla wasn't fooled.  She immediately started attacking Orut, but then realized that taking him down would leave her weakened for an attack by Fel.  She backed off.  Her pursuit of justice would have to wait for the status quo to change.  The stalemate has lasted for 300 years.  Orut is starting to run low on the resources necessary to power the shield.

More on Dying Gods:  When a god dies its divine power is lost unless certain procedures are conducted to absorb, store, and transfer that power to another.  Kihr and the others were stealing the divine power from the old gods as they were dying.  The old gods were giving their power to Etla at the same time.  It was a race, but Etla appeared to come out ahead, or at least she and her newly risen undead followers were able to hold their own against the other 4 and their mortal followers.  When a god is dead, its creations deteriorate, its cities become ruins, its people either join another god or fade away over time.  The battle between Etla and the other new gods was not just between them.  In actuality the battles took much longer with many followers of the old gods joining their favorite new ones and fighting with them.  Many people died in this world war and Etla brought back almost all of them, binding them to unlife until their duty is complete.

Godly Blessings:  Each of the gods gives their followers their own distinct blessing.  The other 4 gods each gave their followers 1 blessing.  But Etla received a bit more divine power than the others and is able to bestow 2 blessings upon her followers.  The first is Binding Duty.  This is what keeps the souls of Etla's followers from leaving their bodies after taking too much damage to the vital organs.  It also allows a "dead" follower's body to regenerate itself and eventually become animate again.  The only way to circumvent this is to burn the corpse or douse it in acid to such an extent that only ashes remain.  A body blown to pieces will still continue to regenerate from its largest chunk.  The regeneration takes longer the smaller the largest piece gets.  The second blessing is the Blessing of Magic.  Needless to say, it allows you to wield magic.

Characters:  You're undead.  Your soul has been brought back and implanted into your body.  You will keep coming back until your duty is complete, for it is what binds you to this world.  You don't especially hate the living, it's just that all of them are currently supporting villainous gods, and you're against that.  There are even some living ones that are your friends because they work for Etla, but they are unable to reproduce due to the Binding Duty blessing.  You don't need sustenance or sleep, and your body can take a lot of punishment and keep moving.  You also would very much like to complete the task that tugs at you constantly because you want to go back to sleep, meet up with your ancestors and loved ones in the afterlife, and possibly be reincarnated again and live a new life.  But you have something very important to do first.

For purposes of gameplay, assume undead have these initial benefits which separate them from "normal" living humans:  1.  No need to Eat, Drink, or Sleep, 2.  Dead regeneration-upon character death, pay attention to how much lower than 0 the character's HP has become.  It cannot go lower than -20.  When a character's HP is negative, it recovers at a rate depending on how beat up the corpse is (I will determine rates when/if we get to the situation).  If the character is just barely dead, the rate will probably be 1 HP per combat round.  If body parts are splattered all over...it'll take quite a bit longer-maybe 1HP per minute or per hour. 3.  Dead Healing-Etlans can be healed with magic, bandages, stitches, potions, herbs, etc. when dead.  Keep in mind that an Etlan whose corpse is ashed or dissolved is truly gone and cannot be brought back.  The Binding Duty blessing is only so powerful.  4.  Immunity to most poisons and diseases.  There are special cases, for instance diseases that work on dead flesh.

Godly affinities:  Affinities represent how much of a bond the character has to each god.  A higher affinity score increases the amount of powers and traits a character can have and use.

Etla affinity: All Etlans start off with 1 godly affinity point for Etla.  Each point of Etla affinity grants 20 HP, 1 power point, and 3 trait points to spend on physical traits.  Etla will also favor you more.

Players can make whatever sorts of undead they want.  Most Etlans are just wights.  They are as intelligent as normal humans and have many of the same strengths and weaknesses as normal humans.  Many Etlans are skeletons and zombies indicating an imperfect reanimation process for some reason.  Their flesh was burnt entirely, their brains were dissolved, or they had just been a corpse before Etla attained godhood.  Mummies are rare but do exist.  Some of the old gods had pyramids built and their favorite followers buried within them.  A band of travelers in the great desert succumbed to dehydration from the heat and sun and time.  One of them "survived" by drinking the blood of the others.  He turned into the first vampire and created more of his kind.  He has long since been destroyed, but his progeny remain, thirsty for blood and fearing the scorching sun.  There are ghosts, but they are not Etlans.  They are the souls of those who faded away when their gods died, and they have nowhere to go.  Some are hostile, others indifferent, others sympathetic to the living.  In any event, characters can make a case for being any sort of undead creature and can gain the benefits as long as they take the weaknesses as well.


*[tiki-download_file.php?fileId=3|Etla Sample Character.doc (25.60 Kb)]
