---
title: Duration
permalink: /mystic/components/duration
category: mystic2
---
There are three types of mystic effects. **Instantaneous** effects, such
as healing a fallen comrade, happen at once. **Temporary** effects, such
as creating the illusion of a terrifying monster, last for a while
before they fade. **Permanent** effects, such as creating a stone wall
out of thin air, happen once and leave a permanent impact. The duration
of an effect is given in brackets after the effect's description.

#### Converting an instantaneous effect to a temporary effect

For many instantaneous effects, extending the effect to last over the
course of several rounds is often possible. For example, a mystic could
create a fireball that hangs in the air for a few rounds before
disappearing, or continuously heal a fellow party member over the course
of several rounds. An instantaneous effect extended in this way is known
as a **converted temporary effect**.

To convert an effect in this fashion, pay the cost again for each round
beyond the first the effect is to last. For example, to heal an ally for
3d6 hit points each round for three rounds, pay Heal 6 (Heal 2 times
three rounds' duration).

Note that converted temporary effects cannot be warded (see below).

#### Extending the duration of a temporary effect

Initially, a temporary mystic effect lasts for one unit of time—where
the unit is specified in the description of the effect—be it rounds,
minutes, hours, days, or some other length of time. However, as with
virtually everything in the mystic system, the mystic can extend the
duration of the effect by spending additional primary sphere points in
the casting. For each extra point spent, the duration increases by 1d6
units of time. Converted temporary effects cannot be extended in this
fashion.

The [Temporal Extension](/mystic/feats/temporal-extension) feat improves
a mystic's ability to extend the duration of temporary effects.

#### Warding a temporary effect

One of the most powerful techniques that a mystic possesses is the
ability to ward a temporary effect, preserving it for as long as
desired. In some ways, a mystic's warding ability is similar to the
Permanence spell, but mystic wards are generally more flexible and less
lasting than Permanence is. A temporary effect extended by warding is
known as a warded effect. Converted temporary effects cannot be warded.
For more information about warding a mystic effect, see the
[Warding](/mystic/techniques/warding) section.
