Once a ciy guard, always a city guard.  Johan began his service under the witch king's rule.  The laws of the land were reasonably thorough, and their punishments genearly lead to exicution, preferably by methods that left the body largely intact.  In Johan's early years, this satisified his cruel streek just fine.  He persued the criminal, brought them to a speedy trial, and then whent on to grab the next.  The system was simple, but that's why it worked.  

But as time got on, his superiors were more interested in him bringing in anyone and didn't seem to care of that person was guilty or not, and that did not sit well with the young guardsmen.  After all, for him it was about the administration of the law and keeping the system working as effichently as possible, not supplying the witchking's army with fresh fodder.  He was a guardsman, not a rancher.

Even before Dragonsbane and his associates began their advance towards Heliogabalus, Johan was disatisfied with his lot in life, feeling used and mislead into upholding a system that just didn't realy work.  So with an unlocked gate here, a misdirected guardforce there, Johan helped pave Dragonsbane's advance towards the castle, and Damara's inevitable regime change.

After the smoke had settled, Johan resumed his duties as a city watchman.  The lawas changed, and so did the methods, but Johan simply took these changes in stride.  His singular brutality still being sated in the persuit of particularly henous offenders, cultivating himself a reputation of being the unflinchingly blunt finality of the law.  Although Dragonsbane disaproved of his methods, he could not deny their effectiveness.

During the second invasion of the witch king, Johan was often seen patrolling the battlements of Heliogabalus, clubing corpses and invaders alike with his signature heavy mace, sending their broken bodies falling into the moat.  King Gareth's death filled him with annoyance, as it heralded the need for breaking in a new ruler to his &quot;methods&quot;, however the city dispite being thrown into chaos will continue to fear the inevitable head trauma brought forth by his mace.
