The people of the small town of Freedom's Eye (population of about 1500) are a bit off, though it's hard to tell why at first.  Their history is a long one.

tIn the underdark, Illithids control a large number of slaves.  After using them for grunt work, the illithids devour the brains of the helpless, dominated slaves.  As psionic creatures, they especially enjoyed the brains of psionic beings.  Duerger were hard to come by, however, and psionic drow and svirfneblin were also rare.  One Elder Brain decided to take matters into its own hands, and tried to make other beings psionic (though only modestly so, to avoid resistance and rebellion).  It tried, but the underdark races weren't malleable enough, so a surface raid was organized with the aid of the Drow.

tFrom this raid they gathered some elves, dwarves, and humans. Once again, the Elder brain was thwarted by The elves and dwarves, who both resisted the transformation too much.  It finally found success when it tried humanity.  The fast pace and remarkable flexibility of humans made it easy to imbue psionics into them.  Although there were a number of side effects, the Elder brain succeeded in making a race of psionic humans, and gave them the ability to psionically sustain themselves and to shield themselves from mishap, to reduce maintainance costs.  

tUnfortunately, this new race couldn't procreate normally.  Still, the Elder Brain was able to develop a relatively simple ritual to make humans into this new race (Who later called themselves the Elan), which could be performed by other mind flayers, and (to their surprise) the Elan themselves.  As such, The remaining humans were used as breeding stock, and as they aged, were transformed.

tTo an illithid, the new race was like a fine wine.  They got better with time.  To the surprise (and glee) of the elder brain and ilithids, however, they're bodies didn't deteriorate, as a result of the psychic energy that infused them.  Thus, some were allowed to live for hundreds of years (Buying one of those was tremendously expensive).

tThis continued for a long, long time.  A very long time.

tThen came a human adventurer.  He used an odd style of martial arts he had developed, as well as significant magical power, and used his mental and martial training to kill the mind flayers, as he managed to defeat the Elder Brain.  He freed the slaves, and questioned these humans that lived underground.  They explained what had happened to the best of their knowledge, and expressed a desire to leave, lest the mind flayers return.  The adventurer agreed, and they left.

tThe adventurer (Luke Solthen) lead them to the surface, to the same cave he had entered the underdark from.  As they looked upon natural sunlight for the first time in countless generations, both Elan and Human stood in Awe.  Luke introduced them to the land of Damara, and informed them that they were in the Galena mountains.  Luke actually owned the land, as, after helping to clear the land of evil, got it as part of a large barony.  Of course, it was in the mountains, so he had almost no subjects, and he wasn't much for diplomacy.  He had decided to explore the caverns in his territory, which lead to the discovery of the Elan.  Luke offered the Elan a place to live, but he would need a diplomat so he could focus on training and running the country.  They agreed, sending one of their elders (G'lath'ks, or Gil as he became known) to Dragonsbane to introduce himself.  Gil was instated as a representative of Luke's Barony.  The Elan, lead by Luke and Gil, constructed their new town of Freedom's Eye.  It grew, and many new people came in, restoring the diversity of the population, and turning it into a fairly bustling mining town, as well as an outpost to guard against the underdark.

tJust over 10 years later, the Vaasans invaded Damara.

tThough the people of Freedom's Eye fought to defend the Galena mountains and defend bloodstorm pass, even their skill couldn't stop the onslaught of the invading force.  The few left retreated to the town, which had been left largely untouched, as it was in the mountains, out of the way of the invading force.  There they have licked their wounds, and tried to cope witht he vastly reduced population.  Almost all of the remaining survivors are Elan, but with few humans able to breed, their culture is faced with the threat of stagnation once again.
