||
Beacon of Hope | The activation of a warning beacon on a disused watchtower has brought ghostly allies to Damara.
The Slow Thaw | It is Spring in Damara.  The snow and ice thaw slowly, making travel somewhat easier, but swelling the rivers with cold swift water.  It will still be a while before the snow is finally gone from the plains and the sowing of crops can begin.
The Plague Spreads | A strange disease is spreading through Damara.  The symptoms include fever, chills, weakness, and vomiting.  Villages near ((Giantspire Mountains|the Giantspire Mountains)), ((Galena Mountains South|the southern end of the Galena Mountains)), ((Icelace River Region|the Icelace River)), and in ((Western Heartland|the Western Heartland)) have all had trouble with this mysterious illness.  There appears to be no pattern to the spread of the plague; one village's entire population may succumb while a neighboring village has no documented cases.  The disease is not typically fatal, but very few people recover without divine aid.  The cause of this plague has yet to be found. 
Under the Table | An underground organization of Impilturan loyalists have begun to work with the leaders of Damara.  This provides some limited trade, as well as the ability to smuggle things into/out of ((Impiltur)).
Marked | Three citizens of Damara have been branded by a strange Abyssal symbol that radiates evil.  No ill effects have so far come of the mark, but no magic has yet been able to remove the brand.
((Endless Undead Hordes)) | Left over undead from the recent war against the Witch King still wander the sewers of ((Heliogabalus)).  The city guard has offered payment to any able bodied persons aiding in clearing out any remaining undead.
Bounty | The ((Citadel of Assassins)) has issued a bounty on the heads of anyone connected to the government of Damara.  The Citadel is also offering a small bonus for several specific player characters; those involved in ((Completed Missions|Chasing Shadows: Part I))
The End of the Beginning | Through the sacrifice of many good men and women, Zhengyi's power has been permanently sealed away in a tiny pocket dimension of the Astral Plane.  Thus ends the threatening shadow looming in the north.
||
