Act 1 - Theft of the Witch-King's Phylactery 
tOn the eve of Shieldmeet, whilst ((King Gareth Dragonsbane)) sat in open council with his people, a band of raiders from the ((Citadel of Assassins)) aided by ((Knellict)) invaded the royal vault.  Mysteriously, from among the many items of great power held within they took only one; an opaque black orb with significant power but no readily apparent use.

Act 2 - ((Castle Perilous)) Resurgent  
tIn early Eleint scattered reports begin arriving of a familiar dark scar marring the land of ((Vaasa)).  ((King Gareth Dragonsbane|King Dragonsbane)) sends his best scouts to investigate, but one by one they disappear.  By the end of the month all contact with ((Vaasa)) is severed, and further scouting units dispatched to the area never return.

Act 3 - The Grim Harvest  
tThough bandit activity out of ((Vaasa)) has ceased entirely, the peace is laden with an aura of unease.  On the day of Highharvestide, King Dragonsbane calls to arms all able-bodied men and women residing in Damara.  Additionally, ((Baron Donlevy the Young)) is dispatched to ((Impiltur)) as a royal emissary.  He is tasked with securing the aid of ((Queen Sambryl)), though for what is still uncertain.

Act 4 - Friends and Foes  
tMidway through the month of Marpenoth, a tremendous army pours forth from ((Vaasa)).  Immediately before the initial invasion, the ((Vaasan Gate)) is inexplicably opened, and the defenders are almost instantly overwhelmed.  The city of ((Bloodstone Gate)) is abandoned quickly, as the remaining military forces draw back to the ((Damaran Gate)).  Within hours of the gate being closed the armies of the re-born ((Zhengyi the Witch-King|Witch-King)) lay siege to it.
tMeanwhile, ((Queen Sambryl)) of ((Impiltur)) is assassinated, and ((Baron Donlevy the Young|Baron Donlevy)) is implicated in the murder.  The crown prince ((King Arorhon Imphras|Arorhon Imphras)) seizes control of Impiltur, using the assassination to raise the ire of the people of Impiltur against Damara.  During this time, ((the Twelve Lords of Imphras II)) are all banished, imprisoned, or otherwise removed from the picture.

Act 5 - Desperate Defense
tWith the loss of support from ((Impiltur)) supplies quickly run low at the fortresses defending the ((Damaran Gate)).  Additionally, raiding parties begin to strike at the Damaran countryside from several points in the Galena mountain range.  Accordingly, King Dragonsbane orders his remaining forces to withdraw to the capitol, and the Damaran Gate falls two days after the Feast of the Moon.  As the Damaran forces conduct a constant battle in an effort to slow the Witch-King's advance on the capitol, providing enough time for the majority of Damarans to retreat behind the walls of Heliogabalus.  During this battle both King Dragonsbane and the Witch-King take to the field, supporting their armies but avoiding direct confrontation.

Act 6 - The Cold Day of Fire
tOn the eve of the winter solstice, ((King Gareth Dragonsbane|King Dragonsbane)) prepares to make a final stand defending ((Heliogabalus)).  Immediately before the penultimate battle he descends into the royal vault and retrieves a sword that glows white with holy power.  As night falls, the armies of ((Zhengyi the Witch-King)) descend upon ((Heliogabalus)), and the Damaran forces hold the walls as best they can.  The Witch-King and King Dragonsbane again support their forces without directly confronting each other - that is, until the dawn comes.  
tAs the first light of morning lightens the battlefield, it is clear that the Damaran forces are vastly outnumbered, as the Witch-King has been constantly re-animating all who have fallen and sending the resulting undead against the defenders.  It is then that King Dragonsbane orders the gates of the city opened, and he then stands alone against the undead horde.  As wave after wave of undead are incinerated by holy power, the Witch-King orders his minions to retreat.  
tIt is then that the penultimate confrontation begins, as King Dragonsbane and the Witch-King re-live the epic battle of 14 years ago.  As the combat wears on, it becomes apparent that without the support of his fellow heroes the King of Damara is no longer a match for the Witch-King.  As the dark energies he wields finally overwhelm Dragonsbane, the Witch-King draws in for the final blow, a sneer curling his long dead lips.  And the final blow comes.  Not from the Witch-King, but from Dragonsbane himself.  As he impales himself upon the holy sword he had taken from the royal vault, he utters a final prayer to Ilmater, asking that his sacrifice be not in vain.  The result is miraculous; a pillar of holy fire, so intense as to be blinding, consumes both Dragonsbane and the Witch-King, permanently ending the lives of both.

Act 7 - After the End
tWith the final death of the Witch-King the hordes of undead he had created are released from any form of sentient control.  The result is that the undead fall upon those living creatures nearest to them, being the remaining army of orcs, goblins, and giants.  In the chaos that ensues the army of humanoids is either killed or scattered, and eventually the undead turn to the city.  However, without sentient control, their assault is little more than ineffectual flailing at the stone walls of the city, and the undead are quickly destroyed.
tAt the end of the day the defenders of Damara are victorious, but the victory was pyrrhic at best.  When the last of the mindless undead are eliminated, the defenders gaze over a city which has been ravaged by siege engines, many buildings destroyed by hurtled boulders or burned by alchemist's fire.  The countryside between Heliogabalus and Vaasa has been stripped bare to provide for the soldiers on both sides of the conflict.  The standing army of ((Damara)) has been decimated.  The previously strong alliance with ((Impiltur)) has disintegrated.  There seems to be little hope left to ((Damara)) in the fading light, but with the next dawn hope may rise again.

