Raine was the firstborn son to ((King Gareth Dragonsbane|King Dragonsbane's)) first wife who died when Raine was a small child.  Although, after the King remarried, he was officially labeled a bastard child, even though his birth was legitimate.

When Raine was nine, his father remarried and just over a year later, ((Princess Sarah Dragonsbane|Sarah)) was born.  Not wanting to see any tension over lineage build between his family, the wise and venerable king shipped his first son off to the ((Monastary of the Yellow Rose)) located atop the Southern Galena Mountains.  There he learned about nature, military strategy and martial skills.  He spent the next twelve years growing and learning all he could, trusting in his father's wisdom; however, once the second war with Vaasa broke out, he felt compelled to return to the mainland of his home and helped out as best he could as a minor commander in the army.  Now that the war is over, he has determined that the best course of action would be to remain in the Capital and work with his extended family and the surviving members of the royal court to rebuild the country to its former glory (And maybe sweet talk his way into a decent position of power).

He stands tall at 6'0&quot; with a decent lean build sculpted from years of training with the monks.  He is intelligent, Charismatic and Wise and many who talk with him find him to be a charming young man who seems to have a strong sense of justice in mind.  He will, on occasion, return to the Monastary every once in awhile.  Rumors have started to circulate that he is doing this to research some dark and strange fighting skill, however the validity of this has yet to be proven.
